---
title: "The Handless Mage"
reddit: 114j54
author: Ishullanu
date: 2012-10-08T05:47:02Z
---

(Though the following thoughts are extrapolated mostly from in game observation on how mortals use magicka, it also seems to match many of the descriptions found in lore books explicitly describing magic use, and because of that I believe it is appropriate for lore discussion. Such book examples include the battle magic found in “[Mystery of Talara Part III](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/mystery-talara)” and the clear inclusion of hands for the enchanting process in “[Twin Secrets](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/twin-secrets)”. And as this is almost entirely conjecture I have chosen to forgo the conjecture tag, if only to save us from the giant wall of green)

When observing a spell being cast, it is plain to see that a certain measure of manual manipulation is required to form the magicka to the mage’s purpose. The process starts with an internal declaration of what spell is intended, a recollection of techniques and thought processes known from the relevant school, then magicka is visibly expelled from and directed by the hand. This is often coupled with some sort of broad gesture or intricate finger movements (this does not include the power of the Nordic Thu’um, which is believed to be a gift granted by either Kynareth or Akatosh, is accomplished by different processes, and does not seem connected to an individual’s magicka pool). The hands may well be necessary for channeling internal power, shaping raw magicka into the spell and focusing it like a lens. If this is true, removal of hands could result in the metaphysical castration of the mage, eliminating much if not all of their spellcasting capacity. This punishment could be used in situations where a mage has large potential for dangerous behavior or is likely to lose control of their power, but where death would be deemed as unnecessarily cruel.

Now the suggestion that something as mundane as amputation could affect something as extraordinary as magical ability may seem implausible, but it has been shown conclusively that an injury to one’s physical form can destroy or limit magical abilities. An example of this was seen with Tiber Septim [losing his power of the Voice after his throat was slit](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Tiber_Septim#cite_note-name-1). So even though these powers transcend our physical selves, it would appear they still require a material means. 

But there could also be ways to circumvent this disability, to become The Handless Mage. A powerful wizard could attempt to mimic something similar to the Nordic shout, developing techniques of the tongue and throat to mimic the articulations of the hand. It seems improbable that the same measure of precision could be gained with this technique, and it could be entirely impossible to be a true spellcaster this way, likely being limited to abilities currently known to be attainable through words of power.

With enough arcane authority and knowledge, perhaps the memory of one's hands could be enough. To focus the spirit and mind sharply enough, one could supposedly create literal phantom limbs, which in turn would move to shape the mage's magicka further. The precedent here being ghosts and spirits, without physical limbs of there own, still being able to project their will through ethereal representations of extremities they used to possess. 

The link between what lies at the end of our arms and the forces we can project beyond them is apparent, but what occurs when that link is severed is far more ambiguous. This type of injury could be a magic user’s greatest weakness, literally cutting them off from accessing their inherent power. Or hand removal could be a potential boon, removing a wizard’s reliance on the physical and creating a more direct involvement of one’s own spirit in controlling the flow of magicka. Unfortunately these theories exist in the hypothetical, and the magical potential of the Handless Mage will remain a mystery unless some brave and curious scholars choose to engage in empirical testing. 

