---
title: "The House of Troubles and the Upstart who Vanishes"
reddit: 13t8s5
author: regalnerd
date: 2012-11-26T14:00:38Z
---

So we all know about the House of Troubles, the so called “bad” daedra, Malacath, Sheogorath, Mehrunes Dagon, and Molag Bal. There was a thread on the forums that was able to connect the dots and show us how these daedra are related to each other and more importantly, Lorkhan. Each Daedra has experienced a shift in sphere since their creation.

**Trinimac to Malacath** – Nobility to Scorn.

**Jyggalag to Sheogorath** – Order to Chaos.

**LDK to Dagon** – Escaping destruction to causing destruction.

**Ruddy Man to Molag Bal** – Love to Hate.

Trinimac was the strong god of the Aldmer, he was noble, he was the one who sundered Lorkhan, and he was changed by Boethiah into Malacath for speaking lies of Lorkhan. 

Jyggalag was the Daedric prince of order until the other Daedra cursed him with the madness of Lorkhan, which is why Sheogorath is described as being born when the divine spark of Lorkhan was removed, and why he is called the “Sithis shaped hole” in the world.

The Leaper Demon King tried to extend every Kalpa at the end, and thanks to the schemes of The Greedy Man (Lorkhan) he was cursed by Alduin to become Mehrunes Dagon, the Daedra of destruction.

Now this is the tricky part, I have no evidence that it was the Ruddy Man persona that new love, but Molag Bal is the one who taught Vivec CHIM, and as such must have known love himself, and we have this little passage from the Aldudagga 

&gt; “You silly little snow whale, do you not know that there can be no joy for me? That long ago I gave up such things to the betterment of my rage? And while I recognize love between creatures that are unalike, I have built a bulwark against its joy and--" 

Which suggests a shift in sphere, that once Bal knew love, but abandoned it for his rage. And what does this have to do with Lorkhan?

&gt; "Mighty Lion of Evening, Vulgar and Low, Keeper of Coldharbour since the fall of Lyg, Destroyer of the Hearts of Men, I have come to-- “

Now what is Lyg you ask? From the Commentaries:

&gt; I give my soul to the Magna Ge, sayeth the joyous in Paradise, for they created Mehrunes the Razor in secret, in the very bowels of Lyg, the domain of the Upstart who vanishes. 

Lyg, Domain of the upstart who vanishes A.K.A Lorkhan. The wording in the Aldudagga suggests that Bal only became the master of the Coldharbour when Lyg fell in the previous Kalpa. 

If Auri-El is the soul of Anu-El who is the soul of Anu who is Stasis, it would stand to reason that Lorkhan is the soul of Sithis who is the soul of Padomay who is change. The daedra of the house of troubles interacted with the very soul of change, and were in turned changed themselves.
