---
title: "Orismer (Orc) beliefs, culture, and their homeland Orsinium."
reddit: 14k7ex
author: A_Generous_Upvote
date: 2012-12-09T20:00:19Z
---

The Orcs we know today began with the Daedric Prince Boethiah devouring the god-hero Trinimac and corrupting him into the Daedric Prince Malacath and all of Trinimac's followers. Orismer (Orcs) are actually descendants of Aldmer which means they are elves giving the name Oris"mer". When Trinimac was corrupted so were his followers making them look "ugly" as the other races call them.


Orcs follow the Code of Malacath unless they live as an Imperial citizen that follows Imperial laws. The Code of Malacath is an unwritten set of rules that are pretty basic. Don't steal, don't kill, don't attack people for no reason (There are many exceptions for the last one).  These codes are never written any where, but are past on from generation to generation. Orsinium and all Orc strongholds follow the Code of Malacath.

In Orc Strongholds who ever is the strongest male becomes the chief. Only Chiefs can have wives. This method is to ensure that the strongest Orc becomes chief, contributing his genes to the next generation of orcs who in theory should be stronger than the last. Also if you have a problem then you deal with it you don't have some imperial guards deal with your problem. Strongholds do not have jails or prisons, but have a thing called "Blood Price", this is when the criminal bleeds until the victim is satisfied. Orcs all sleep under the same roof of a longhouse and have feasts there as well. Orc strongholds rely on each other and are sort of a big family.

Orc culture is widely surrounded around battle and war. Orcs believe to die in battle would be the most honorable death. Their culture is also surrounded around blacksmithing and have been known for their quality armor they make and their fierceness in battle. These are some of the reasons the Empire recruits Orcs from Strongholds.


Orsinium is considered Orc's homeland even though it has been ransacked many times. Orsinium was first established in the Tenth century of the Second Era. Orsinium started off as a few tribes, but then Orc chieftain Torug gro-Igron brought his people together. Orismer had been pariah of the land of the land for 200 years and to hear of a place that Orcs could call home was too amazing not to be sought. 

Orc historians said it was a utopia, a peaceful land full of agriculture and commerce. Orcs were not the only ones to live there but, Goblins, Gremlins, and Ogres that worshipped Mauloch (Malacath) as well. 

However this dream didn't last long. In 1E 950 the first Siege of Orsinium began. Other neighboring countries feared Orcs were gaining too much power so a joint military force made up of the Breton armies of Daggerfall and the Redguard soldiers of Sentinel invaded the Orc homeland, but Orsinium's walls wouldn't be breached until 30 years later and the Orcs proved themselves to be fearsome and brutal warriors. The forces overran the city and was razed to the ground in 1E 980. The Orismer homeland would rise again.

Over the next 3000 years other Orcs attempted to create new homelands, but all were destroyed before any could even begin.

Then in 3E 399, an Orc, Gortwog gro-Nagorm acquired the land near the former site of Orsinium through a duel against Lord Bowyn, you can read more in [Orsinium and the Orcs.](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/orsinium-and-orcs) 

This new version of Orsinium, was sometimes called Nova Orsinium. The city had statues of Orc heroes such as Mauloch and Torug. Nova Orsinium was destined to provoke the same reaction the first Orsinium did. Gortwog was a political genius and the Orc homeland prospered and it now encompasses a substantial territory of central High Rock. Its application to become a province is under review by the Imperial authorities. 

Then there is a religous conflict that has brewed for the last 10 years. Most Orcs worshipped the Daedric Prince Malacath. However Gortwog and high ranking shaman priests believe that Trinimac still lives and that Malacath is a separate entity. The Orcs that support Gortwog fear that turning their back on Malacath will anger the Daedric Prince. 


We don't know a whole lot about the second sacking of Orsinium, but the combined forces of Hammerfell and High Rock invaded Orsinium and again was destroyed. The Imperial Legion helped Orc refugees escape to Skyrim. For this Orcs now have become more friendly with the Empire and have joined the Legion once ready to leave their stronghold.


Orsinium is now relocated between Skyrim and Hammerfell.


EDIT: My Orc lore account is /u/ORCS_ARE_THE_SHIT I accidentally posted it on this account.
