---
title: "\"From the deserts of rust and wounds to Camoran's paradise\" a translation and interpretation of the Mysterium Xarxes Vol. II"
reddit: 15qn36
author: Rileyman360
date: 2012-12-31T20:28:24Z
---

I would like to point out that the public readings at wolverine hall went unexpected. A lot of the members planing on showing up seemed to have lost the way. The correction of the translation was nice until a naughty daedra approached me and almost spoiled the second page. Luckily my silence spell was quicker than his lips. Please no conjuring daedra until the end of the reading. Now without further delay.
_______________________________________________________________

[The second page of the Mysterium Xarxes](http://images.uesp.net/6/69/Mysterium_Xarxes_P2.jpg) seems to differentiate itself rom the previous page. Tremble from the last statement seems to be the final statement so for now, we shall assume that this marks a new statement. From the very top we are given a new statement:

*Come slow and bring four kes*

Now, what is meant by this? My guess, though a long shot, would be that kes means Keys since Yahkem is commonly omitted. Four keys are required, but for what? To reach Camoran's Paradise, to summon Dagon? What are the four keys? The tribunal's four corners of the house of troubles, which Dagon is a part of? Dagon's four artifacts (his razor, the daedric crescent, the Mysterium Xarxes, maybe the commentaries)? The four volumes of the Mythic dawn commentaries? That being said, one does require all four commentaries in order to be a part of Dagon's cult, so this may very well be the keys.

There are four different bodies of text all staritng out wit a certain number. On the left below the first statement, we get the first numbered text:

*Mother | in m(y) first arm a storm*

We now move on to the second numbered statement on the upper right hand side of the page:

*M(y)-sec-ond-the-rus-h_-of-pla-gue-d_rai-n_*

Which translates to "my second the, the rush of plagued rain". We now move to the third numbered statement located at the lower left hand corner of the center triangle figure:

*the third all the tinder of anu*

The final numbered statement located adjacent to the third:

*the fourth the ver_ e_es of padhome*

All these seen to suggests what powers are held within Dagon's hands. The first arm (his upper right hand) holds a great storm of destruction. His second arm (upper left) holds a rain of plagues. Most likely the rain from the storm. The third arm (lower right hand) holds the tinder of Anu. Anu, of course, is the being who fell in love with Nir and impregnated her with life and creation. Tinder is a substance that is flammable. Could the tinder be a reference to the burning hatred Anu had for Padomey when Padomey struck down Nir? Nir's Death could be the "tinder" of destruction, since Nirn was on the brink of it when I first was born. The final statement could be translated as "the fourth the very eyes of Padhome". Padhome is another name for Padomay. Padomey's eyes lusted for the beauty of Nir. This brought Padomey to strike down Nir and cause the first act of destruction. The last two hands of Dagon seem to suggest that he believes he is the beginning, the being, and the cause of all destruction and change. These four arms may also be a reference to the four keys mentioned before...*hand* ^^^forgive ^^^my ^^^childish ^^^behavior .

Around the triangle holds different tid bits of titles and objects. From top going clockwise:

*to, e-s-tr-o, er-akin-miasma, master-is-master*

Only noticeable thing here is something akin to miasma (nasty smell) and master is master.

The final statement at the very bottom states:

*Be winnowed the timid shall be ble_ at m(y) feet and pra(y) pardon*

The statement suggests that the followers of Dagon will be winnowed from the timid, or "separated from them by wind". 'Ble_ at my feet' seems to elude me along with its meaning.  'Pray for pardon' suggests that obviously the Mythic dawn cultists should always beg for Dagon's mercy from the destruction from his hands.

To finish of, the Mysterium Xarxes seems to be more of a summoning rite for Mehrunes Dagon. It tells us of Dagon's plan for the oblivion crisis and what he does for his followers in return for their worship. It holds hymns for him, a summoning chant, and all the works. What does this mean? It means that Mancar Camoran wasn't all that powerful, nor was the actual book. Camoran, during his escape from the blades, most likely summoned Dagon and performed a ritual in order to gain access or paradise. The book is only powerful in the sense that it will help summon Mehrunes Dagon for you. Hopefully we can shed some light on the situation at hand with the power of the Mysterium Xarxes and the Mancar Camoran. You may now conjure your daedra to help bring light to this. Anhaedra may be allowed to enter now as long as his temper is kept in check.

*Wulf Braveheart*

Addendum: added second page picture.
