---
title: "On the marriage practices of Morrowind, and some notes on the institution of slavery in Morrowind"
reddit: 19smmy
author: FrankManic
date: 2013-03-06T20:07:57Z
---

Velothi – Something along Mongol lines. The Velothi seem strongly tied to their tribes, rather than nuclear or lineal families. The Marriage would likely be officiated by the Wise Woman and involve appealing to the ancestors, the good Daedra, and the spirits of Vvardenfell to witness and approve the marriage. Elves are very long lived, to the order of thousands of years among the Telvanni and Altmer. It seems unlikely that Ashlander marriages would be permanent, simply due to the span of time (And the Dunmer's famously dour character). Given the relatively slow Elven life span and the great danger of living in the Ashlands among beasts, daedra, bandits, smugglers, and the odd Ordinator it seems likely that remarriage would be a fairly simple affair. Dark elves are known for promiscuity in their youth and for a people that live that long I doubt virginity is considered important or notable. 

Important life stages are likely marked by becoming proficient with weapons and magic. The Magribrash suggest that women are acknowledged as being potential fighting wizards. Likewise the hazards of the ashlands and the rough equality of men and women, coupled with the great deal of time women spend not-pregnant compared to the briefer races, suggests that women are likely fighters alongside men. 

Pre-marriage rituals likely include exchange of gifts – clothing, armor, weapons, blankets, magical scrolls or spells, guars, nix, shalk, various household goods, silver and gold. Ashlanders are noted for taking the exchange of gifts very seriously. It is always considered good form to offer bribes, that is to give a gift of gold. For serious occaisions it is considered important to show respect by learning about the recipient and offering a gift that will be suitable to their temperment, useful, and valuable to that specific person. Value is not as important as the care that goes into choosing the gift.

Additonally a visit to the ancestor tombs of the various Dunmeri families seems likely, and if not that then pilgrimage to ancestor shrines, sacred places, or daedric shrines. 

The ceremony itself is likely brief, involving some sort of proclamation from the wise woman, a blessing from the Ashkhan, some sort of formula between representatives of each person's family, 

Redoran

Likely the most 'tradtional' of the great houses. Probably shares many characteristics with Indoril and Dren nobility. Likely viewed as a meeting of families, though again given the long lives of elves one cannot be sure of that. Most likely involves the presence of senior members of each persons lineal family, one or more Tribunal representatives to witness the marriage in the name of AlmSiVi, and perhaps a ranking member of the Redoran formal structure. It seems likely that Nerevar and Almalexia would stand as the model for the ideal Dunmer marriage. Though given how that marriage ended it would be somewhat ironic. The presence of an ancestor ghost would likely depend on the degree to which the individuals present followed ancestor worship practices. More likely for the Redoran, less likely for Indoril. And Dren, being somewhat difficult to know away on the border of Argonia, cannot be commented on. 

The event itself likely involves a visit to the local Tribunal temple or shrine where the marriage is witnessed by AlmSiVi and approved by the House representative. This would likely be followed by a reception and a party. Redorans being Redorans this would likely serve as a time to meet and reaffirm featly and comittment to Redoran. 

Indoril – Indoril being strongly committed to the Tribunal, few in number, and having a large proportion of nobles would likely follow similar customs to the Redoran. If anything they are likely to be stuffier, more formal, and less accepting of any western or pre-AlmSiVi influence. 

Telvanni – It would seem that Telvanni practices are as wildly distinctive as the Telvanni themselves. It's commonly known that the only time the Telvanni pay attentiont to anything outside fireball range is if they believe it's a threat to themselves, Telvanni as a whole, or Morrowind. The sorry state of Tribunal shrines (frequently in the basement, behind the door marked "Beware of Vermai") and of Tribunal temples (there aren't any) demonstrate the disinterest of the Telvanni in religious matters. A marriage is unlikely to involve anything beyond the agreement of the principles. If there is significant property or prestige involved the local Wizard Lord or a representative might be requested to witness and keep track of any marriage document. Beyond that there is likely to be a party of some sort. It seems likely that a Telvanni celebration would be quite a sight, providing the wizards a chance to show off some of their flashier magic or to summon otherworldly entertainment. It would also serve as an excuse for families to visit each other, travelling between isolated Telvanni townships and holds. 

Hlallu – the Hlallu are most likely to adopt western practices. It would not be surprising if a Hlallu wedding involved an edgy Tribunal witness standing alongside a priestess of the Nine Divines. The Hlallu houses are notable for being more competitive than members of the other great houses; it seems more likely that attention would be paid to a marriage contract. It is also likely that Hlallu would seek to adopt trends and fashions from other parts of Tamriel, as the house as a whole in noted for it's interest in and acceptance of other cultures. 

Commoners – Commoner weddings are fairly unpretenious affairs. A journey to the Tribunal temple to seek the witness of AlmSiVi, perhaps a visit to the ancestral shrine, followed by a party hosted by the families of the betrothed. The formal portions are short and simple, the party being the most notable aspect. 

Slaves – The Dren and Telvanni are the primary slaveholders on Morrowind. The manner in which the two houses hold slaves is distinctive. The Dren hold large numbers of slaves as field and plantation workers. Dren slaves perform a great deal of the agricultural work of southern Morrowind. Comparitively the Dren slave is less likely to be well treated. Dren slaves are traded more frequently, less likely to receive medical care, and more likely to die young, frequently of overwork or illness. The majority of Telvanni slaves work in or around the house or compound. It's hard to generalize with Telvanni, and they do have many field slaves. In a very general sense, however, Telvanni slaves are better off than Dren slaves. The large number of magicians and wizards make health care less expensive. Telvanni are also much less likely to trade slaves. A given slave family will likely live under a single Telvanni master their entire life. 
Telvanni slaves are much more likely than Dren slaves to engage in some craft or trade and the Telvanni generally allow their slaves to keep the procedes of their trade. 

Slavery under the Telvanni, in many ways, resembles Peonage in Bretony more than the grueling forced labor of the Dren. Many Telvanni Slaves grow to have, in not a friendly, at least a tolerant relationship with their masters. It helps somewhat that the Telvanni wizard-lords are as disinterested in their slaves as they are in most everything except magic and intriguing. The dispassionately practical Telvanni often ensure their Slaves relative comfort for the simple reason that it's less trouble to keep them happy than to hunt down escapees and put down revolts. It is notable that men and mer will occaisionally sell themselves into slavery in a Telvanni household. For those who are poor but have some craft or an intellect that makes them valuable to the Telvanni this is a way of securing food and shelter. This sort of slave is somewhere between a dependent and a valuable posession.
