---
title: "Mojo's Commentaries on the Mythic Dawn Commentaries- Part I"
reddit: 1kp839
author: mojonation1487
date: 2013-08-20T00:13:55Z
---

Greetings fellow scholars! I have decided to write up my own commentary on the Mythic Dawn Commentaries. I've always been in love with Mankar, despite his alleged wrong-headedness, so this was only a matter of time. Enjoy!
________________________________________

&gt; *“Greetings, novitiate, and know first a reassurance: Mankar Camoran was once like you, asleep, unwise, protonymic. We mortals leave the dreaming-sleeve of birth the same, unmantled save for the symbiosis with our mothers, thus to practice and thus to rapprochement, until finally we might through new eyes leave our hearths without need or fear that she remains behind. In this moment we destroy her forever and enter the demesne of Lord Dagon.”*

Here Mankar describes the mundane experience of mortal life; from the dreamsleeve to his Dagonic belief of transcendence. Here we see the first implication that Mundus should belong to Dagon. Demesne means manorial land actually possessed by the lord and not held by tenants. 

&gt; *“Reader, this book is your door to that demesne, and though you be a destroyer you must still submit to locks. Lord Dagon would only have those clever enough to pause; all else the Aurbis claims in their fool running. Walk first. Heed. The impatience you feel is your first slave to behead.”*

Here we see the mention of a destroyer. I take this as a perversion of the traditional definition of a Padomaic. Instead of just a bringer of chaos or change, Mankar takes it to the extreme with Dagon’s own sphere of destruction.

&gt; *“It shall this time be neonymbiosis, master akin to Master, whose Mother is miasma.”*

This line I find quite interesting. Neonymbiosis is obvious a word made up for the series. But let’s try to break it down a bit. Neo- is quite self-explanatory, meaning new. The -nym- part I relate to names, as with neonymics and protonymics. -Biosis we find in symbiosis, the definition of which is the living together in more or less intimate association or close union of two dissimilar organisms. The more psychiatric definition is, a relationship between two people in which each person is dependent upon and receives reinforcement, whether beneficial or detrimental, from the other. Let’s keep this in mind as we try to rationalize these concepts together. 

The result of neonymbiosis, if my rationalization is correct, wouldn’t be that far off of mantling. A new name is given, while the two will “walk” as each other. “Walk like them until they walk like you”. They will reinforce each other. But why would Mankar talk about mantling? This alludes me still.

&gt; *“Night follows day, and so know that this primary insight shall fall alike unto the turbulent evening sea where all faiths are tested. Again, a reassurance: even the Usurper went under the Iliac before he rose up to claim his fleet. Fear only for a second. Shaken belief is like water for a purpose: in the garden of the Dawn we shall breathe whole realities.”*

This is an interesting passage, especially as I mostly have no idea what the hell it means. Other than a passage of reassurance, I see no other purpose. “Shaken belief is like water for a purpose: in the garden of the Dawn we shall breathe whole realities.” is probably my favorite line out of this, it sounds quite Thalmor-ish.

&gt; *“Endlessly it shall form and reform around you, deeds as entities, all-systems only an hour before they bloom to zero sums, flowering like vestments, divine raiment worn to dance at Lord Dagon's golden feet. In his first arm, a storm, his second the rush of plagued rain, the third all the tinder of Anu, and the fourth the very eyes of Padhome. Feel uplifted in thine heart that you have this first key, for it shall strike high and low into the wormrot of false heavens.”*

Here Mankar talks about the 4 items needed to open the portal to Paradise. The storm refers to a daedric artifact, the plagued rain refers to the blood of a Divine, the tinder of Anu is a Great Welkynd Stone (as they are Aetherial fragments), and the eyes of Padhome are Great Sigil Stones.


&gt; *“Roaring I wandered until I grew hoarse with the gospel. I had read the mysteries of Lord Dagon and feeling anew went mad with the overflow. My words found no purchase until I became hidden. These were not words for the common of Tamriel, whose clergy long ago feigned the very existence of the Dawn. Learn from my mistake; know that humility was Mankar Camoran's original wisdom. Come slow, and bring four keys.*
&gt; 
&gt; *Offering myself to that daybreak allowed the girdle of grace to contain me. When my voice returned, it spoke with another tongue. After three nights I could speak fire.”*

Here, Mankar finds that the general populace of Tamriel, while an aggregate of religious pantheons, isn’t the most accepting of his “revelation”. He learns humility as well as patience from this experience; only the worthy will be allowed on the ride.

The second passage is the most interesting. When he gives himself to his “humble” revelation, he underwent a transformation of sorts. The process will most likely never be known, but it would appear he could use the Thu’um after this point. This could possibly imply he is Dragonborn, allowing him to wear the Amulet of Kings during the Main Quest of Oblivion.

This will complete Part I of my commentaries on the Mythic Dawn’s Commentaries. I would appreciate thoughts, corrections, conversation and ranting in all shapes and forms. I absolutely adore the Commentaries, so expect Parts II through IV as fast as I can push them out.
