---
title: "The 36 Lessons of Vivec and Liber AL vel Legis"
reddit: 1l0mk7
author: Anonymous_Mononymous
date: 2013-08-24T19:31:59Z
---

Thelema is a religion that was developed around 1904 by an Englishman named Aleister Crowley. It focuses on a trinity of revised Egyptian gods: Nuit, Hadit, and Heru-ra-ha. Nuit is Nut, wife of Geb and goddess of the stars. Hadit is Horus, whose symbols are the Secret Seed, the Holy Ghost, and the star Sothis. Heru-ra-ha is Re-Horakhty (Ra, who is Horus of the Two Horizons.) One of the sacred texts of Thelema is called The Book of the Law. I believe this book may have been an inspiration for certain aspects of mysticism present in Dunmer tradition.

Sermon 1
&gt;'For I have crushed a world with my left hand,' he will say, 'but in my right hand is how it could have won against me. Love is under my will only.'

Chapter 3 Line 72
&gt;but my left hand is empty, for I have crushed an Universe; &amp; nought remains.

Chapter 1 Line 57
&gt;Invoke me under my stars! Love is the law, love under will.

Sermon 3
&gt;Vivec felt that his mother was afraid, and so consoled her.
'The fire is mine: let it consume thee,
And make a secret door
At the altar of Padhome
In the House of Boet-hi-Ah
Where we become safe
And looked after.'

Chapter 3 Line 38
&gt;The light is mine; its rays consume
Me: I have made a secret door
Into the House of Ra and Tum,
Of Khephra and of Ahathoor.
I am thy Theban, O Mentu,
The prophet Ankh-af-na-khonsu!

Sermon 15
&gt;You alone, though you come again and again, can unmake him.

Sermon 16
&gt;He wandered to find Vivec, his lord and master, the glory of the image of Veloth...

Chapter 2 Line 65
&gt;I am the Master: thou art the Holy Chosen One.

Sermon 16
&gt;And so Nerevar carved at the grave ghosts until he was out of breath and their Parliament could make no new laws.
He said, 'I am not of the slaves that perish.'

Chapter 2 Line 49
&gt;I am unique &amp; conqueror. I am not of the slaves that perish. Be they damned &amp; dead! Amen. (This is of the 4: there is a fifth who is invisible, &amp; therein am I as a babe in an egg.)

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

The ending of the words is the Word Abrahadabra.

