---
title: "A treatise of the effects of trans-liminal passage on local space-time."
reddit: 1q07pv
author: Anonymous_Mononymous
date: 2013-11-06T04:35:28Z
---

When it becomes necessary to break a hole in the shell of the Mundus, sufficient force must be applied against the barrier-wall of reality in order to grant access to the creeping thorns and roses of Oblivion. Practitioners of the school of Conjuration know how to manipulate magicka to make shallow cuts in the walls of existence to bind lesser atronachs and demons to their will. However, these spells rarely cause more damage to time than what amounts to temporal papercuts. Because the spells are not in synch chronologically, they don't resonate and they become automatically smoothed over. The laws of causality are unaffected by such minute changes. For the most part, the only major anomalies occur on summoning days, when a major Daedra Lord manifests before a gathering of worshippers for a single day out of the year. The strain of their passing is so taxing on the earthbones and the time of their passage is so uniform that the fabric of space becomes slightly stretched in that spot and time begins to leak forwards and backwards. When a Daedric Prince is summoned into the world, the force of their entry lowers the summoner into a semi-temporal state where they are concurrent with every other summoner in history. The danger of these summoning circles are often not from the Daedra but from the other cultists. The Demon Princes are said to take special interest in mortals who can defend themselves against champions of many eras.

The recent discovery of temporal erosion has cast new light on the ethics of magic and perhaps the motivations of the Mythic Dawn. When Lorkhan was alive, time had not yet begun. The Convention of the Gods, which marked the beginning of the linear passage of time and any sense of causality, was not called until Lorkhan was dead and Magnus had abandoned them. The goal of Mankar Camoran was not to lead Mehrunes Dagon to dominion over Tamriel, but to use the force of his summoning to break time. He believed that if he could destroy Convention and lower Tamriel as a whole into a state which normally only occurs in summoning circles, he would be able to sever the passage of time and restore Lorkhan to the position of King over the Aurbis.
