---
title: "Where Were You When The Dragon Broke? [Missing Excerpts]"
reddit: 1r2ey3
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2013-11-20T16:25:32Z
---

A continuation of [Where Were You When The Dragon Broke?](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/obscure-where-were-you-when-dragon-broke)
_____________________________________________________________

**Taxithel, Argonian, Keeper of the Hatching Pool in Soulrest**

*“My people did not at first understand what was happening, until the Hist told us to stop looking at the sea and gaze upon the sky. We did what we were told and saw something very peculiar: the stars turned inside-out and the ghost-moons disappeared as the sky turned into a shell of a Great Egg. We were very frightened, for the Egg was not supposed to return, not this soon. But the Hist comforted us and told us to watch the sky, and so we continued to do so. A great Crack appeared, signaling the creation of a Hatching – a Constant point. But from this Crack fell nine more Great Eggs, and we were very frightened of this. These Eggs also Cracked, Hatching nine Serpents whose names are not known to us. The largest Serpent and the second largest Serpent then commenced in the Biting, and they Bit each other until the Marsh was soaked in blood. Finally the largest Serpent swallowed the second largest Serpent whole and became a new Serpent that roared many Names. The new Serpent then started a new Naming for the other Serpents and after it was over they left the Egg through the Crack and this is what really frightened us, because the Hatched should not reenter the Egg. And then the Crack Uncracked itself and the Egg disappeared. The Hist went silent, but not before they laughed and signed. This is what really happened during your ‘Dragon Break’, and only the Saxhleel remember it.”*

**Grom, Nord, Mad Bard of Snowhawk**

*“Why did you do that? Who would release him? The World-Eater returned that day, I tell you he did! And he ate the WORLD, but I can still REMEMBER it! We were all inside his stomach sloshing in the rivers of ice that had once been Atmora, which had melted due to the dragon’s inner-furnace. And you were all there, every single one of us! All the Mer and all the Men, and every those thieving cats and hated lizards, even though the latter two would blink in and out of places that had once been. Even the Ayleidoon and the Deep Ones were inside with us, and their shared madness became our share madness! But then the Clever Men came and they Shouted nine songs that made Alduin belch us back up and the dragon was very confused. But then his eyes grew clever and he Shouted in more than voice and time, and the entire of the World forgot what he said."*
_____________________________________________________________
This is uncompleted, and I will finish it later on. The Bosmer, Altmer, Falmer, Breton, Redguard, and Alyeid accounts shall be known to the world.
