---
title: "A history of Yokudans"
reddit: 1rs98c
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2013-11-30T18:16:25Z
---

It has been many Cycles now, since the Serpent made his Skin-Ball, on which we stride. Or it was this Cycle. All we know is that Sep's lost Skins have devoured his Skin-Ball multiple times, every time ending with Ruptga impaling it with his Big Stick, having us begin anew.  
Even though this has gone on for countless Cycles, or one, we have not found the Far Shores yet.  
These Far Shores are what we live for, for we hate life. Ruptga showed us the Path long ago, before the Cycles, even before the conception of Sep. But we could not reach it, for we were weak. In our weakness we listened to Second Serpent and went to exist on the Skin-Ball, for it was easier than what we were used to. By listening to Sep, we brought down the hate of Ruptga on us, though, and he has made it harder for us to find the Far Shores for which we long.

We were cursed with the harshest of the Skin-Ball, seeing naught but sand and rugged rock. We knew that this was our curse, further strengthened by the mocking of Tall Papa and Tu'whacca, he who places us back on our journey, even when we die. But we do not hate him for this. It is a necessity that we are punished for our foolishness, and we hope to use our suffering to find the Far Shores.

In our history, we have always tried to find the Far Shores Ruptga showed us. In our naivety, we thought we had reached the Far Shores once, only to find out that we had not left Sep's Skin-Ball.  
On this other part of the Skin-Ball we have met people we did not only fight, and we find them strange.

Some do not hate Sep's trickery. They even refer him, and love him. They worship those that also followed Second Serpent, but did not die. In their ignorance, they even think our gods are theirs, just under a different name. They look like us, yet they are different, for their skins are shaped by cold and night, and not by warmth and sun. We find this fitting.  
Others hate the Skin-Ball as much as we do, but they do not look for the Path of Ruptga. Instead, their ignorant minds try to recreate the Big Stick. They do not know that this will only hold the loose Skins of the Skin-Ball together. We despise them for this. They are like our past enemies, but they are different. We can not say in what way, for this knowledge has been lost.  
Yet others do not concern themselves with the Skin-Ball, following other creatures. We have not seen them much, for they live far away. They appear stranger than the others, and we do not think Tu'whacca holds influence over them. They are unlike anything we have seen before.

We have found a home here on this part of the Skin-Ball, but we are no further to the Far Shores that we want to find. Some say that we can climb Ruptga's Big Stick, but it was left here by Tall Papa as an example. Others say we need to destroy the False Sticks, but we will not be able to find the Path when the Skins come loose.  
The closest we have seen were from those that settled our land before us. Some say they are like the World Haters still alive, but we do not know this. They also looked up to the Stars, to what Tall Papa put in the sky for us, so that we might find the Far Shores. They found patterns and meaning in them, but they did not find what we wanted to find, for they sought their escape not in the Path provided by Ruptga, but in the remains of Second Serpent.

All these generations have not brought us closer to that which we looked for. We still remain, though. And we still search for that which was shown to us, what we foolishly looked for in the Skin-Ball, made by the treacherous Sep.

