---
title: "On the Humble Mudcrab"
reddit: 1t3lw3
author: lebiro
date: 2013-12-17T17:13:56Z
---

*So, this has been a casual fun project for a while, which kind of snowballed out of control. I can't even put it all in this box because it's about 6000 characters too long, so I will post the rest in the comments. For the same reason, I haven't really proofread it thoroughly, so if you see any issues, do let me know.*

---

On the Humble Mudcrab
---

By Larius Linnius, for the Imperial Zoological Society, University of Nibenay
3E 433

-----

The Mudcrab. To some an awful creature, to some a delicacy, to some, merely a nuisance. But no beast may claim such ubiquity, such mastery, such omnipresent domain as the humble mudcrab on Tamriel. In every corner of the continent, this creature in its many shapes survives and thrives. In this work, I will share my reflections and observations on the humble mudcrab as it exists in each of Tamriel’s nine provinces, and hope to share a little of my enthusiasm.

As the name suggests, mudcrabs have an affinity for mud. They can be found in caves, ruins, swamps, and on the banks of both fresh and salt water, digging, and even burrowing, in the rich mud for food of various types. As a general rule, the mudcrab is omnivorous, with most species’ diets consisting predominantly of algae and small molluscs, but extending to all manner of plants and animals. Levels of aggression and danger vary significantly among breeds – most mudcrabs will not actively seek to attack men or mer, but all may prove surprisingly aggressive if disturbed.

All mudcrabs share some basic physiological similarities. A tough exoskeleton is the first. While this shell varies considerably in its size, shape, and colouration, all have the same makeup – layers of chitinous bone-like substance not dissimilar to the shell of the far mightier land dreugh. All mudcrabs have three pairs of jointed legs and one pair of pincers (the shape and size of which varies startlingly). The arrangement of legs means it is not uncommon for the mudcrab to walk with a strange sideways or diagonal gait, but they are far more capable (and predisposed) than lesser crabs to move in a speedier forward direction if necessary. This technique is especially utilised while attacking, as it places the crab’s main weapon, its pincers, towards the foe.

The sensory functions of the mudcrab are conducted in a pair of tiny eyes, as well as two pairs of antennae. While the former are generally agreed to be largely useless except at very short distance, the latter are highly sensitive to sound, tastes, vibrations, and even smells, and can be used to detect predators and prey alike whether in water or air.

One other major similarity is the culinary application of the mudcrab! In almost every culture, men, mer, and beastfolk, have found the meat of these perhaps unappetising creatures to be tasty and nutritious, and it is bought and sold in almost every waterside settlement in Tamriel.

Beyond these similarities (and anatomical details with which I will not bore the casual reader), the many strains of mudcrab vary almost too greatly to be considered together, and so I will proceed by describing each on a province-by-province basis.
