---
title: "Rise Now, Great City of Winterhold"
reddit: 1t5f18
author: Avian81
date: 2013-12-18T05:42:08Z
---

This is a poem I made dedicated to the once great city of Winterhold, enjoy!



&gt;Farewell to you, Great Winterhold, the Kingdom of Unforgiving Cold.
&gt;
&gt;Once the Capital of all of Skyrim, now a mere shadow of what has been.
&gt;
&gt;Your Kings once held the Jagged Crown, now a Jarl leads this small town.
&gt;
&gt;Blood ran down your streets before, From Rebellion to a Lasting War.
&gt;
&gt;No other city could match your fame, now nothing but a city of shame.
&gt;
&gt;You once rivaled the great City of Solitude, it's no question you have lost this feud.
&gt;
&gt;Crowded streets full of happiness and life, now replaced by sorrow and strife.
&gt;
&gt;Merchants that came from Necrom to Alinor, once came to trade all sorts
&gt;
&gt;But now they would just ignore, the the barren village in the north.
&gt;
&gt;The College once held in high regard, now has a reputation scarred.
&gt;
&gt;It's a shame to see what has happened, a city's glory come to end.
&gt;
&gt;Farewell to you, Great Winterhold, Your sons will remain forever bold.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Rise now, Great City of Winterhold, Remember the stories of old,
&gt;
&gt;A fortress you were once called, do you remember? Or will you forever slumber?
&gt;
&gt;Shall you continue your fall? And become another Saarthal?
&gt;
&gt;Remember of the ones who fought for your throne? Their stories now etched in stone.
&gt;
&gt;I grew up in the City we all remember, there is still hope, for there is an ember.
&gt;
&gt;All is not lost for the new day rises, You cannot forever stay in crisis.
&gt;
&gt;Rise and remember your great legacy, for this is no mournful elegy.
&gt;
&gt;This is a message to rise once more, to become the city we all adore.
&gt;
&gt;Rebuild the districts you once lost, do not be lost in the winter's frost.
&gt;
&gt;What we are now is a curse, but remember our goal, and fulfill our role,
&gt;
&gt;As the builders of our city's fate, our rebirth has been foretold. Why wait? 
&gt;
&gt;Rise now, Great City of Winterhold, Not all your stories have been told.
