---
title: "Scales and Ash: The Argonians at Red Mountain (Part II)"
reddit: 1t61sx
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2013-12-18T14:08:18Z
---

*[A Partial Truth to the Battle of Red Mountain, which was consequently erased from the minds of almost all that were present on the battlefield that day.]*

#PART II: Underneath The Ash-Filled Sky
**Indoril Nerevar, “The Argonians Lead The Charge”**
	*“When the Argonians saw the Dwemer, a great change came over them. It was as if the lizard-men had suddenly saw the men or women that had disgraced one of their ancestors. They began roaring in anger and glee as they banged their shields with their spears and began to run towards the enemies line of defense, the Red Mountain towering above us all. I will not lie. The display was terrifying; all of the Argonians were moving and striking as one. It was if something had suddenly seized control of their minds, and were moving them as pawns. I turned back to my troops, and yelled at them to join the fray. We will not stand idly and let our newfound allies win the day for us.”*

**Vivec, “A Particular Hatred”**
	*“I am unhappy to admit that both Nerevar and Dagoth were right. The Argonians are fighting better than I have ever seen them. I would even dare to admit that they are fighting better than some of our own troops. But their attacking formation appears concentrated on only one of our enemies the most – the Dwemer. I do not lie as I say that I saw entire units of those lizard-men avoid groups of Orcs and Nords just to strike a horrific deathblow to one Dwemer general or automaton in the area. I am quite interested in the cause of this bloodthirsty behavior, but as long as my own people can bloody their swords in the field of war, I shall not dwell much on the matter.”*

**Alandro-Sul, “Forging the Path”**
	*“Nerevar yelled to me from across the battlefield that we needed to enter the Red Mountain as quickly as possible before the Dwemer activated their ‘weapon’. I quickly grabbed a contingent of a mixture of Argonian and Chimer troops and began to fight our through the combat zone. I must say that I think the soldiers under my command are the best of the best. Chimer swordsmen cut through the Orcs and the Nords while the Argonians concentrated on the Dwemer and their constructs. We left nothing but a bloody swath in our wake.”*

**Voryn Dagoth, “I Wonder…”**
	*“I would’ve went directly with Sul had it not been for the Argonians who were supporting their tree. They asked me if I could help protect their ‘Hist’ as they moved further down the battlefield. Despite the fact that I wished to end this deadly game with the Dwemer and my brethren, I obliged. I quickly organized the men under my command and had them help defend the tree-caravan. I am very curious about this Hist. Clearly the Argonians greatly respect the tree or they wouldn’t be going through all this trouble to keep it safe. As we marched onwards I swear I saw one of the roots coil around one of the supporters, causing the lizard-man to hasten his speed. What is it with these trees?”*

**Dro’Zira, “Into the Caverns”**
	*“This one had hoped that the walking-turtles would quickly succumb to the combined forces of Dro’Zira’s allies, but alas that did not happen. Like a swarm of flies the Turtle-Men and the Gold-Skins charged into one of the entrances of the Deep Ones strongholds. Dro’Zira heard Wulfharth yell in defiance, and as one we went in right after them.”*

**Dumac Dwarfking, “Burn the Hist! Burn it to the ground!”**
	*“I noticed the Ash King and his cat mount charge after the Argonians and the Chimer into one of the many entrances of Red Mountain. But that is not the only entrance, not at all. The Mountain is like a piece of clockwork, and opened itself whenever we pleased. I called forth fifty of my strongest warriors and we began to enter one of the secret doors when I noticed the Hist tree being carried into Red Mountain. I yelled at another unit to arm themselves with fire coated arrows, and they released them into the red sky.”*

**Wulfharth, “Beneath the Red-Tower”**
	*“Damn the Devils and their Demons! I must say so myself, I did not believe that they would put up such a fight. But they did, they have, and they still are. My brave warriors are pushing forward despite their fear of the Golden Ones and the Lizard-Men. But I feel a strange calling deep within myself. The Heart of Shor calls out to me, and I too it. It is nearby. In the names of the mighty kings and queens that came before me I will strike down those who stand in my way. Hurry, Dro’Zira! Let us run through these tunnels and chase the monsters out!”*
