---
title: "Suktul, the Argonian who Hated Time"
reddit: 1u1r3z
author: xenoposeidon
date: 2013-12-30T22:19:41Z
---

“The concept Imperials called 'time' did not have a word in Glim's native language Jel. In fact, the hardest part of learning the language of the Imperials was that they made their verbs different to indicate when something had happened, as if the most important thing in the world was to establish a linear sequence of events, as if doing so somehow explained things better than holistic apprehension. 

To Glim's people – at least the most traditional ones – birth and death were the same moment. All of life – all of history – was one moment, and only by ignoring most of its content could one create the illusion of linear progression. The agreement to see things in this limited way was what other peoples called 'time'.”

page 90, Infernal City

[**Suktul, the Argonian who Hated Time**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0AOR6A29yg-dE1ld29RNk1jaHc/edit?usp=sharing)

(Thing was about 2000 characters too long so I had to stick it in a google drive file)

This is my story for this week's theme of time. My original aim in writing it was to demonstrate the Argonian understanding of time and its conflict with the rest of the races' perspectives, though it ended up being a bit of a larger story than I was expecting.

Notice there is a reason why the first half of the story is written in a very ugly present tense, which is to attempt to show the reader the Argonian perspective not only through the story itself but also the way the story is written.

Anyway, sone lore notes and things I should make clear about the story:

* You'll notice I use the word "and" a lot in the story. This is actually my attempt at theorizing what the Argonian perspective on events looks like. My theory is that, for Argonians, because there is no conceptualization of time, everything in the Argonian perspective happens either in addition or subtraction. Argonians do notice that there is day and there is night, but instead of saying that day comes after night and so on, they view days and nights as adding up. Reincarnation in the Argonian perspective is not a re-creation of a long-dead relative, but rather the addition of another given name to the same person, hence the line detailing Suktul's many names. This also comes into what Suktul claims later on, saying that there is only "is and is not"

* This story uses the theory that Argonians have a short lifespan, so Suktul is already old to the point of his scales turning translucent when around 40-something years old.

* If you're confused about why the Imperials have waterfalls coming out of their eyes in one part of the story, that's the Argonian perspective on crying. This is just a small theory of mine that Argonians don't cry, based loosely on the IC info saying that Argonians don't sweat either.

* The part where Suktul is shouting obscenities at the Imperials is inspired by an /r/worldbuilding thread I saw a month or so ago in which it was asked how a non-human race would call humans in a racist or vulgar manner, and one person raised the point that a reptilian race would likely make fun of humans for having their penises be outside of their bodies at all times instead of only during mating time for reptiles (Look up Cloaca on wikipedia if you want to know more about that). I also took the liberty of adding my own insult of the Argonians making fun of hair, which they see as ugly.

* If you didn't pick up on it, the village "catastrophe" is an instance in which a Hist goes Rogue and is killed in some way by the main Hist. Because of this the village's Argonians are incapable of reincarnation, thus the statement that in the village "What is dead cannot be alive"

That's pretty much it, hope you like the story and manage to read through it without cringing too much at that horribly Argonian present tense writing. Any questions and criticism are welcome.

