---
title: "The concept of time in Argonian and Yokudan culture"
reddit: 1u2cri
author: Ushnad_gro-Udnar
date: 2013-12-31T03:20:32Z
---

Hello all. I just threw this theory together before it slipped my mind as inspired by xeno's [latest piece](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1u1r3z/suktul_the_argonian_who_hated_time/). It is of course very rough and I encourage editing of any sort. I hope you enjoy the read and thank you.

-----

The Mundus is the certainty of uncertainty. It is a mixture of both Anuic pure stasis and the chaotic ever-changing nature of Padomay. What is most important to the existence of this impossibility is the stable passage of time. It is at the moment of Convention when Time is completely solidified and therefore the stable existence of the Mundus. This stability is anchored in Nirn and therefore the inhabitants of the planet and even more so the inhabitants of Tamriel, the Starry Heart. Among the inhabitants there are roughly three groups. Mer, Man and Beast Folk. The Mer are majorly Anuic and see time as a potentially endless flow as that of a river. To them it is not a pertinent concept but merely a habit of agreeing n the order of events. There is a beginning but not much of an end or not one that is really worth considering. Man on the other hand is well aware of its mortality and sees Time as fractured, segmented, categorized. A break in the linear flow of time, the breach of habit that is death, leads Man to have a more Padomaic lean in their concept of time. After all without habit there is no order as order requires the ability to be repeated and remain constant. 
	
One of the beast races, the lizard men or Saxhleel, have no concept of time. They do not see a flow of time but rather all events occurring at once. A bit like a dragon break. This is due to their creation. The Hist created the Saxhleel from lizards native to the swamps of Black Marsh by feeding their sap to them. The Saxhleel are not unlike the drones or agents of the Hist and because of this they have a very strongly Padomaic nature, far more than even the Nords. This Padomaic nature means that they tend to disfavor habit, tradition. They have many instances of them but the most fundamental common tradition to any people is the acceptance of a flow of time, a concept by which one can orient themselves and have true agency due to the ability to predict and plan. The Saxhleel lack this fundamental tradition due to their Padomaic nature inherited from their progenitors.
	
This concept of time can also explain the outlier nature of the Yokudans. All races of man are more Padomaic in nature due to their connection with Shor/Lorkhan/Shezzar etc. in the Dawn Era and their decendency from the Wandering Ehlnofey. They also all see the Creation in a favorable light. They thank the Lorkhan character in their pantheon for giving them life while Mer see Creation as a curse and place the Lorkhan character in a demonic role. The Redguards, a race of Man, also see Creation as a curse. The causality is in the opposite direction of that of the Saxhleel but the logic remains the same. The Yokudan conception of Creation and therefore time is strongly Anuic. Somehow, though exactly how I am unsure of, the Redguards were given a concept of kalpas that is much more clearly defined than that of the Nords. And while the Nords see the end of a kalpa as a definitive end the Yokudans see the effort to reach the Far Shores as something that is common and therefore trans-kalpic. This common string in time gives the Redguards a concept of it as more like that of the Elves, a linear flow of time, one with some hiccups here and there but a linear flow none the less. In reverse of the Saxhleel their view of time leads to an Anuic nature and therefore the hatred towards Mundus.

