---
title: "Beware the Revenant"
reddit: 1v1gl0
author: TwistingWagoo
date: 2014-01-12T17:42:09Z
---

Note: the following texts were discovered in orbit around RKHET, torn and decaying, yet still recoverable. By all accounts, it seems to indicate that there was an expedition of a single vessel far beyond LKHN, bizarrely enough crewed by all the races, dated sometime after Landfall. How this happened, especially in the climate of that time period, makes no sense, but what they tell could prove useful when we stumble upon this other body, or it's roaming diplomat.- Biggus Dickus, 5E 69

&gt;# 4?/5?E [Inconcievable], 27 Last Seed
&gt;# Writer: Haming Torsosplitter, Vessel Chronicler

&gt;Why am I in this position? The captain should not have done this. Sure, 'Landfall' as the circumstances behind our departure were being called when we left was horrible, but this, this, THIS is not meant to be experienced by anyone at all. This THING, this Revenant is no place meant for anyone. I would not even wish this on anyone, not even an elf, and that is something I once thought I would never say. We made a horrible mistake with this expedition, and now we have ALL paid for it dearly. Stay on Masser, they said, you will be less likely to perish, they said. They were right.

&gt;Revenant is not meant to be near any living thing. Upon viewing, it seemed like a bad idea to even come all the way out here. Captain Ocato was horribly stupid, and should not have gone anywhere close to it. The view from where we were held nothing but black clouds, a stench that seemed to penetrate to the bridge, and a sense of uneasiness. But Ocato continued to move closer, until any further would have brought us inside. It was in this state that we would finally anchor the ship, and stopped moving any further. It was here that our smith and odd inventor, Torug, proceeded to go and use that odd extension to poke into the planet. Why did we do this? How do we do this? This is what happens when you go and find a way around infinity. Never should have come here!
	
&gt;Soon afterwards, things went wrong. The navigator, Fast, became even more suspicious then usual. I knew that having an Argonian on board would be bad, but this was something different. He began to look distraught, and started becoming harmful to himself and others. Then things became even worse. Some... substance had started crawling up Torug's extension. It looked wrong, dead, and seemed to be filling with large... things crawling around and in it. Unfortunately, although Tadirel had gone out protected to cut it off, the things... tried to devour her. We could do nothing to save her, and I feel sorry for what happened. Never should have come here.

&gt;At first, we tried to leave, hoping the extension would stop it's spreading disease, but Tadriel came back inside. She was dead, had holes going through her body where there shouldn't be, and large maggots and worms (that's what those things in the substance were!) plugging up what holes their should be, yet she was there. She then proceeded to infest Cato, and almost instantly tried to join Tadriel in the slaughter. Who was left fought back, but we all could not stop it, and retreated. The ship has since been slowly infested, and our numbers have dwindled. I am the only one still alive and not... changed, and will remain so until I am found. My hideaway remains the only place not dead, and I should not remain alive for long. Please, for anyone that comes near, AVOID REVENANT. With this, we will find our doom if it spreads too far. I only have so long before I'm discovered by these... things. With all that has happened, I can only... the engines are working, but they sound like they're dead. Something is wrong, and I must stop this. I never should have come here, we never should have come here, but they never should have come here. And I would be one to prove it so if I ca---------------------------------------

OOC: Yes, I have a thing for the other infinite bodies besides Nirn. There are accounts, both canon and apocryphal, of them, but I don't believe that there is any data on the God of Worm's plane(t)/moon. Considering just who we're talking about here, I figure an undead cosmic horror would be fitting. I am willing to make more accounts if the demand is high enough. Critique is welcome!

Edit: Could some one explain how I could fix this formatting? This isn't exactly right.

Edit II: Thanks to /u/myrrlyn for explaining to me the process to fix things!

Edit III: Judging by the upvotes, it looks like I have an audience. Expect the MHARA system next week (Zenithar, Mara, and Dibella).
