---
title: "Songs of the Return, Volume 38: The Nigh Lost Tale of the Brahtmiir"
reddit: 1y5dd9
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-02-17T14:56:58Z
---

[Many of the tales] of the men and women who were the mighty Five Hundred Companions have been nearly lost due to [time?] and forgetfulness. But some tales were never meant to be lost, and we sing them now until our [Fore]fathers can hear are voices in Sovngarde.

One of these tales tell the story of [the famed but distant] crew of the Brahtmiir. When the Companions decided to settle the land, the Brahtmiir were so inseparable that they boarded their ship and sailed away from the snowy grounds for adventure and glory nearly forgetting to say farewell.

With the blessings of Kyne upon their backs and the strength of Shor in their arms the Brahtmiir leaped across the waters to the southern east, with such warriors of courage onboard such as the Boat-Thane Kit the Whisper (who spoke like spring and cursed like winter) and his best friend Hun (whose fists cracked rock), who’s War-Wife was Aria the Fire Catcher. With them were two dozen more Companions ([notable?] ones being the Driftsman and Guri Nail-Face), who sought to seek new lands for conquest.

The Brahtmiir, however, became so entrenched within their wanderings that they forgot to play tribute to the gods, and so Mother Kyne breathed their boat into a storm so violent that the sound of thunder cracked the [air] and the cold froze the wind. Young Yoki and Clever-Man Grunfar the Solaced lost their lives in nature’s fury, and it was in much weeping and limping that the Brahtmiir landed on a isle in the sea.

It was here that the crew of the Brahtmiir discovered even newer horrors, as they were attacked by tribes of savage bat-men whose Voices rivaled their own Tongues in both elegance and power. For five days and nights the Companions and the wicked beastmen combated with talk and steel until the island began [bleeding flowing rivers of blood].

When both sides realized that neither could out shout the other with combat talks, they resulted to using the most powerful of Voices. The bat-men summoned a blasphemous entity (whose name we shall not record here for fear of evoking him) who killed ten of the Atmorans instantly by simply Talking. With bloody hearts and pained mouths the Tongues of the Brahtmiir cried out to Kyne, who wept at her children’s suffering and through great power summoned [the ghost of Shor], whose battle with the bat god in the aether allowed the Brahtmiir to escape the island on crippled planks, eventually returning to the home they had gleefully abandoned with much grief uncontained.
