---
title: "Landfall: Day -1, Part IV"
reddit: 1z1h9m
author: hircine1
date: 2014-02-27T00:30:48Z
---

Landfall: Day 0 – Skyrim/Morrowind Border

Akulakhan slams into the ground in a three-point landing pose like an enormous armored super hero. 

For miles around the ground quakes. Mountain mer look up from their fishing and gold panning in terror. A Khajiit sneaking into a dragon’s lair wets himself while the dragon raises its head towards the sound in concern. Those close enough to witness Akulakhan’s traverse across Tamriel experience shock, terror, elation, &amp; confusion.

Mehrunes Dagon watches as Akulakhan leaps again and again. A single tear forms and falls from his eye.  It drowns a village.

Nerervar is chasing the falling star. Each jump leaves behind craters deep enough to hide a giant. The brass colossus crosses the snow-strewn plains of Skyrim; a Greybeard shouts himself to pieces as Akulakhan jumps past Higher than High Hrothgar. Dovah scatter from their path like startled birds.

Cyrodill was just over these mountains. The shell of White-Gold is visible over the horizon.  

The falling Dwemer god glistened in the sky; fire and brass shining a reddish hue over the former capital of the Empire. For a brief few moments, it looked majestic again. Nerervar savored those moments. 

5\. Jump! 

4\. Land!

3\. Leap!

2\. Splashdown! (in Lake Rumore)

1\. Akulakhan crouches and turns defensively

0\.	Landfall

Numidium slams into the ground sending shock(time)waves across Tamriel. The walls around Imperial City crumbles into dust. White-Gold didn’t so much as fall but rather simply ceased to exist.

Walk Brass stands in the crater of its own making. Spikey plates orbit the god. A star shines between its antennae(antlers?). It heads out of the crater and straight towards Imperial City. 

Weirships are launching ahead of the assault, evacuating the citizens. Ghost Choir 2 dives toward Numidium, determined to win glory for themselves. Vaped.

GC 1 and 5 take a more defensive pose by flying high above and pelting Walk Brass with logic bombs.

Mirror Logicians, weary from the Siege of Alinor, erect their prismatic mirrors – forcing Numidium to acknowledge its own existence.  

NO!

And those logicians cease to ever have existed.

GC 8 unleashes an assault of fractal missiles, mathematical symbols trailing their path. Some missiles explode and knock plates loose from the armored brass shell; others pass harmlessly (to Numidium) into another time stream.

Numidium’s tremendous hand swats most of GC 4 from the sky while it continues its march into Imperial City. It stomps and destroys everything within reach. A lone weirship struggles to launch. Elves and Khajiit run up the loading ramp, their doom imminent.

Landfall: Day 1 – HIGH NOON

Nerervar/Akulakhan walks slowly and deliberately towards the scene. They shout (the one thing consistent across all timelines) 

STAND DOWN, MY SWEET NUMIDIUM, OR I SWEAR BY THE FIFTEEN-AND-ONE GOLDEN TONES I WILL KILL YOU AND ALL YOUR PEOPLE.

Numidium looks up at its cousin. Tamriel falls silent but for the sound of the weirship’s pulsing engines as it lifts off. The wreckage of GC4 tumbles between the giants.

NO!

Akulavarine stands firm, [uncolor] energy flaring around them.

They smile. YES

Akulavarine charges Numidium.

NO!! Numidium bellows in disbelief (how’s that for irony?)

Akulavarine activates their jets and slams into the Dwemer. The metallic kaboom of brass-on-brass is heard from Akavir to Yokuda.

The titans crash outside Skingrad, leaving a canyon behind them. Akulavarine tries to capitalize on the surprise by plunging its arm-blade into Numidium’s chest. Instead Numidium pushes Akulavarine off, the blade merely shaving a off a number of armor plates. The orbiting plates quickly begin landing on Numidium to repair the damage.

They trade blows, the two most enormous boxers to have ever existed. Each punch could level a city. The only ref for this fight is existence itself.

Numidium shoves Akulavarine back, loosing a bolt of pure energy from its eyes that damages one of Akulavarine’s many gyroscopes. In response Auklavarine tackles Numidium, activating its scroll matrix. 

FACE IT FOOLISH DWEMER – WE EXIST

Numidium looks confused for a moment before grabbing Akulavarine by the legs and throws them across the Colovian Highlands.

NO!

Akulavarine is thrown so far and high that they recover, steadying themselves to land gently.  

The tok-box above Nerervar squalks.  

LORD NERERVAR – IT BECOMES DIFFICULT TO COMPENSATE FOR THE NUMIDIUM’S WORLD REFUSALS. WE FACE…ACE…CE…[unknown language]...CLOCKWORK CITY CANNOT...BROKEN GEARS….TIME LINES..LINES..LINES

Akulavarine stomps their way back to the fight. 

Through the lush jungles of Cyrodiil. 

