---
title: "The Pickaxe: Crafting, Use, and Care"
reddit: 2083n7
author: The_OP3RaT0R
date: 2014-03-12T12:40:30Z
---

*By Calvario Colus*

Mining is a rugged task, but by no means is it the task of a simple brute - not when done right, at least. I have already written a number of books on the various tools of the mining trade, but in this book, I'll take you, dear reader, through the process of crafting, using, and caring for perhaps the tool of most importance to the mining trade. You may jump to whichever section is most relevant to your occupation, if you wish, but I find that an understanding from start to finish of what work goes into this implement breeds a healthy respect for it. In the mining trade, this is what helps get the ore from the earth. This is the pickaxe.

**I. Crafting**

The first and most important miner's tool is the iconic pickaxe. A pickaxe begins with a good hardwood sample cut into a thick plank - whatever hardwood you have available should cut it, but my personal favorite cut comes from a species of deciduous found in Skyrim's Rift region. You'll want to trace the exact shape of your handle onto the side, being sure to account for the end size you will need to fit your socket properly. The shape should be only slightly curved, conforming to the user's hands and offering the strength that a curve provides, similar to the use of arches in architecture. With your outline drawn, you'll then want to begin cutting away. If you have access to some sort of a mechanical saw, that can be a great help to this project; however, most people will likely be restricted to hand tools only, and the best method in this case is to use a hatchet to chop away at the bulk of the excess wood, then take care of the rest with a handsaw and a woodcarving knife. Use the woodcarving knife to round the edges of the handle into fairly smooth curves and finish it off by sanding the handle.

The second important component of a pickaxe is the head. You'll want to begin by selecting your metal; iron or steel will most likely make for the best product at the lowest cost, but you can always opt for something with a unique flair or property to it. Ebony, if you're willing to pour the coin a good chunk of it can be worth into a pickaxe, makes for a heavier head and breaks harder rock and ore easier; a moonstone pickaxe allows for a more precise strike, useful when mining gems of some type; these are just a few alternative metals you can youse at your discretion, but I'm going to be sticking to steel for this guide. Be sure to choose a sample of steel with a good corundum content, to fight rust and ensure a more durable piece. The size you're looking for is an ingot about one-and-a-half times the size of an average ingot.

You'll want to have your forge hot when you begin heating your metal; you're looking for a light orange-yellow color to indicate proper forging heat, and when you see that, it's time to pull out. With the metal still malleable, you need to quickly draw it to about two-and-a-half feet long. Take about six inches at the midpoint and draw it together, making a thicker part that will hold your socket and handle. Punch out your socket and focus on keeping the hole in shape as the metal cools slightly. When the hole looks like it will hold up, move on to the two ends coming off the socket, bending them just a little using the edge of your anvil, then drawing and hammering until you get a point at one end, and a hammer-like flat surface at the other. The metal should really be cooling by now, so you'll focus now on shaping everything just right and making smooth surfaces and edges. At last, dip the metal in water to strengthen it and solidify its shape.

Marrying the socket to the handle is the easiest part of the process; just treat the socket-end of the handle with an adhesive (a paste of hanging moss and glowing mushroom will work fine,) join the two, wipe up any additional adhesive, and let the pieces dry together. At this point, you're free to do what you want to further customize the pickaxe - enchantments, decorative carvings, and so on.

**II. Use**

If you're reading this, you probably already know a thing or two about mining, but a few extra details can help your pickaxe to dig up more ore and last longer. First, try and strike on an angle; the shock of metal hitting rock, when repeated indefinitely, can really shorten your pickaxe's lifespan. This technique also spreads the force of your blows over a wider area, meaning more rock is chipped away with every strike. Also, hold the tool in the same way you would hold a battle axe; both hands firmly grasped around the lower-middle part of the handle, with the head following a swinging path from over your shoulder to the rock. An informed miner keeps his eyes in his head!

**III. Care**

If your pickaxe becomes dull and begins to show signs of wear, you'll want to find a grindstone and some Spriggan sap. Apply a thin layer of the sap, let it treat for an hour, then grind away at the worn areas of the pickaxe. Apply another layer of sap, let it treat overnight, and wipe it clean the next day.
