---
title: "Break the Mythic into Abstract: A Manifesto"
reddit: 20l10c
author: NudeProvided
date: 2014-03-16T22:30:15Z
---

Thanks a ton to Umpteen, XAYAH and OPG for critiquing this.

[For reference.](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Beautiful#The_Beautiful)
___________________________________________________________
*The following was distributed throughout the Refraction Quarter the night before last. Reports have come in recently that applying its text to a building's code causes the entire structure to destabilize. Be on the lookout for anyone matching the pamphleteer's description.*

In the Dawn was Beauty, though we would not know it as such.

The Heart of the World is Lorkhan, who saw Beauty in Flesh.

The Heart of the World is Dibella, who is birthed Flesh from Beauty

The Heart of the World is Sithis, who killed Beauty, and cut Flesh.

The Heart of the World is Leaper-King or Mehrunes-Razor; the difference is none.

The Heart of the Heart is Sheogorath, the Blind Idiot, for he recognizes no theory.

The gods of Ald-Alinor are mortal effigies, monuments to the memory of memory. They are the symbols of our Aedra, painted on the face of the mythos. The crime of the wise and the ageless is this: they deny ephemera, a world refusal if there ever was. For this, they will be tried. We will shatter them, with fire or with steel or with holy vandalism.

What is their declaration? “Carry on, Aldmeris, kind sapiarchy and undefiled trebbites. Carry on, Aldmeris, till we escape this new incomprehensible prison for the safety and paradise of our old incomprehensible prison.” And yet you call us mad.

The old order must be torn to the ground, replaced with the Unclothed Flesh, which is to say freedom, which is to say: no enlightenment. Break the mythic into abstract.

The Lorkhanic races are called the unwashed, the soon-dead, the already-dead. You see them as corpses, but we see the reverse. The Altmer of Ald-Alinor rot in their shimmering halls, hiding in palaces like tombs. We are your killers, your undertakers, your gravediggers, and we will ordain your passing.

You think us the product of bohemian prisms and Mannish parlors, but our age is your age. Though you do not know it, we have danced together since the Dawn faded. The Fall of Crystal-Law. The Sack of Skywatch. The Razings of the Welwa. In your delusion, you believed these threats came from without, not seeing us among walk among you. We are coming for you, Children of the Wirewitch. Padomaics innumerable upon your infinite walls.

In the End will be Flesh, though we will not know it as such.
