---
title: "On Maormer Naval and Martial Traditions and Capabilites"
reddit: 20rsh2
author: StillOnlyCountsAsOne
date: 2014-03-19T01:19:16Z
---

Based on research I have recently conducted on the Maormer,a grand total of all six books in the imperial library that feature them prominently, I have composed for the consideration of this sub an approximation of the tactics, strategy, and efficacy of Maormer in the art of war, both at land and at sea, although the latter is where they truly excel.

The Maormer, often called sea elves by those with a less scholarly inclination, are largely a mystery. We know that their ancestors hail from the same Aldmer as do modern day Altmer or high elves, so I believe it is fair to conclude that magic may be of principal importance in their martial tactics. However, sources tell us that the Maormer hold little but contempt for Altmer culture. From this, I infer that although magic would be present in their martial abilities, it would be of an entirely different nature than that of the Altmer. 

I propose that Maormeri magic would be of a wild and primal nature, derived from the waves and the wind, in total opposition to the refinement that is seen in Altmer practice of the clever craft. It must be powerful yes, but as different to the Altmeri magics as an Argonian to a Nord. (MK, I know that every 'Nord' could be an Argonian.)

But this may not be an entirely accurate picture, because we see that the great king of the Maormer, Orgnum, seems to remain immortally youthful despite the passage of years. However, questions have been raised as to whether Orgnum is a single mer, or a title passed down through the ages. It is difficult to ascertain as the only contact anyone seems to have had with the Maormer is hostile.

In addition, sources such as  [The Fang of the Sea Vipers](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/fang-sea-vipers) tell us that the Maormer have mastered the great sea serpents, and ride them as steeds among the waves, as well as using them to augment their already powerful navy. The posited answer lies again in the magic of the Maormer, which somehow allows them to commune with and control these great beasts. Perhaps it is due to the shared aspect of the ocean that Maormer magic allows them to control the sea serpents, which supports my theory that Maormer magic is derived from the sea, and unlike Altmer magic in every aspect but its potency.

I believe that the tactics most likely used by the Maormer are boarding and sinking lone ships using surprise tactics and their enormous beasts. It is easy to picture several Maormer sneaking up on all sides of an enemy vessel on some of their smaller, more tame sea serpents, and quietly boarding the vessel to take the ship with minimal resistance. It also seems likely to me that the Maormer would send their great beasts at an isolated enemy ship, inflicting damage sufficient to incapacitate it and cause the crew to become easy pickings, or be left to the serpents.

With such powerful tools, why then is it that the Maormer have failed to accomplish much of anything of military significance against their foes (and kin) the Altmer? The answer here lies almost certainly in the precipitous drop in military efficacy on land due to the loss of their serpents on land. Their homeland itself may not truly be land, for all we know. 

It is difficult to say much of the Maormeri homeland, save that it is almost certainly totally unassailable. The one account we do have of the land beyond the veil is that it is a jungle in the sea, filled with great grasping forests of kelp that seek to drag ships to the bottom and drown the crew, and nigh impossible for any vessel but the Maormer's own to navigate safely. 

The piece of the puzzle that is perhaps more interesting and even more unknown is that of Maormer war arts on land. On land, they lose the great utility of their sea serpents, and yet we see them conquer several cities with absolutely no mention of how it is possible. I can only posit the opinion that the Maormer used powerful primal magics to aid in their siege of these places, possibly destroying walls or other fortifications outright. 

Thank you to anyone who made it through what I'm sure most everyone will find to be a very dry post, and I appreciate any sort of discussion or feedback on the topic.
