---
title: "Akavir As Akatosh's Insanity Cured"
reddit: 20zd5w
author: turokman2000
date: 2014-03-21T08:56:49Z
---

I've been thrashing lately.  Throwing out concepts a little hot and heavy, missing the mark, sometimes hitting it I think.  Still, there's one bit I've slept on and I want to hammer it out better.  

To review: Akavir is the future, Yokuda is the past.  Akavir is the Nu-Amaranth.

Adding to that, some of us have started to like/wonder about the idea that the ocean is a sort of cosmic membrane.  This means that sea travel can take you between phases of the the universe, among other things.  Though, it's real meaning is not so literal.

Myself, I still maintain that the cycle of Kalpas ended with Akatosh (time) being created.  It's weird, but I think Auriel is a bird-spirit and Lorkhan a serpent spirit, and Akatosh is the insane fusion of the two.  Hence: dragons, winged serpents.  Akatosh's creation resulted in (because of?) Amaranth.  So, then, what is Nu-Amaranth?  We're told it's Akavir.

____

Even if my own theories miss the mark, one thing about Nu-Amaranth is 'well established': Akatosh is cured of his insanity.  What would that mean?

My own theory is that you can't go back to Kalpic cycles, to endless and timeless births and rebirths.  Change and stasis have union because each moment is fixed, but time forces us into the next moment.  Stasis and change.  That's Akatosh.  But Akatosh in insane.  I'm not sure exactly what that means, but I imagine it has something to do with the dragon break concept.  Time on the one hand keeps unravelling - reality unbinds, changes - but then time tries to fix itself, causing weird inconsistencies.  Kurt Godel if you will.

Akatosh being cured means that time is no longer like that.  What that means is that time is more stable, but also more varied.  Recall that for most of Tamriel's important ages, dragons were mostly banished. Recall also that they were intemperate, possessing a will to dominate but also to consume and destroy.

In Akavir, the dragons are more purposeful.  They guard time.  Time flows where they go.  The way I imagine it is that rather than trying to dominate or consume, dragons' personalities are now more oriented towards guarding time.  They're more 'responsible' now.  Rather than try to maintain one single timeline, they steward their own little bubbles of time.

It sounds almost too simple, but I think what we're talking about here is many realities peacefully (mostly) coexisting.  That's right, dragons who are to some degree stoic and peaceful - if unprovoked.

That's Akavir.  That's Nu-Amaranth.  Multiple realities trading and interacting, but not necessarily competing.  It's something everyone living in it is familiar with.  And if you look at life in the Velothiid, you see that the people of Tomorrowind almost get it already.  They thrive despite the loss of memory.  Why should it stop them?  The people of Akavir, real Akavir, are consistently closer to Amaranth than any before them.  As a people.  No big deal.  Life goes on.

An earlier comment I made suggested that some of the Akavir decided that in fact they wanted to rebind time.  They started killing dragons, and enslaving them. This resulted in them getting 'kicked' out of Nu-Amaranth so to speak.  That's why they invaded Tamriel.  That's why the love the dragonborn - they worship what Talos represents.  That's why they're his blades.  Our mistake is assuming that these rejects from Akavir somehow represent what Akavir *is*.  It is the opposite.  
