---
title: "The Ending Of The Words Is ALMSIVI: The Dunmeri Tower"
reddit: 218dqz
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-03-24T14:39:18Z
---

**Please Note That This Is Only A Pet Theory Of Mine And Thus Completely Conjecture, So Do Not Take This For Fact. Take With Ovaltine.**
_____________________________________________________________

While writing my other piece on the true nature of White-Gold Tower, it reminded me of another theory of mine. If you haven’t read that piece, I advise you to, as it makes this one a tad bit more understandable (actually, a lot more understandable).

Something I realized while browsing through my Lore Corpus Librium (my several gigabyte folder containing texts from UESP, Teslore, Temple Zero Society, The New Whirling School, Beth Forums, and TIL) and multi-writing the Manaudyssey and a Dremora’s Pocket Guide To Oblivion that Towers all seem to be created from or as a response to an Enantimorph event. This is because of ‘as above, so below’; what happened during the Dawn gets mirrored on Mundus by its inhabitants. So let’s get into the basics of my theory on why ALMSIVI functioned as a Tower.

In my opinion, the races of Mundus have either Akaic/Anuic, Lorkhanic/Padomaic, Magnic, or Neglectful views on the Aurbis. I detailed in The True Purpose of White-Gold Tower: The Mantling of the Wheels which races I believe have which view. Since this piece is all about the Mer and their Towers, I’ll only recount them below (along with the Khajiit and the Echmer, as they have their own Towers):

|**Akaic/Anuic**    |**Lorkhanic/Padomaic**     |**Magnic**     |**Neglectful**     |
|:---           |:---:          |:---:          |---:           |
|Altmer    |Dunmer    |Ayleids    |Dwemer    |
|Bosmer    |Maormer**    |Khajiit    |    |
|Echmer***   |Sinismer    |    |    |
|Falmer    |Orismer*    |    |    |

*The Orsimer are in both the Lorkhanic/Padomaic and the Neglectful spot because they are the only Mer race that do not have a Tower but are also Lorkhanic/Padomaic. Unless you want to say that technically Adamantine is their default Tower and they simply chose not to make a mirror of it, but that seems a bit unlikely.

**It is currently unknown if the Maormer have a Tower.

***The Echmer are of my own creation. See my Uutak material for more information about them, or leave me a comment below.

During the Dawn the Aldmer, who are the forerunners of all the modern Elf races except for the Echmer (who aren’t technically Mer along with the Sinismer (I’ll get into that in a minute)), were present at the stabilizing of the universe with the three Ur-Towers:

* Adamantine was the first of these Ur-Towers and was created by Auri-El (his spaceship when he landed it). It represents Stasis, and the Aldmer who saw this one saw the Mundus as a trap that kept them sundered from their godhood. It’s Stone is the Zero Stone, Convention.
* Red Tower was the second of these Ur-Towers and was created by Lorkhan (more specifically, his Heart when it slammed into Nirn). It represents Change, and the Aldmer who saw this one saw the Mundus as a trap that they were being forced to adapt to. It’s Stone is fittingly the Heart of Lorkhan.
* Snow-Throat was the third of these Ur-Towers and was created by Magnus (when he ripped his way into Aetherius). It represents Static-Change, and the Aldmer who saw this one saw the Mundus as a trap that must be left behind permanently.

And so the Aldmer branched into the common elven races of Nirn (except the Echmer and Sinismer), who created their Towers to imitate the original three. Here are all of the Towers that were created, along with the races of Mer (or in case of two, Men) that they are attributed to:

|**Tower**     |**Stone**     |**View**     |**Created By**    |**Attributed To**     |**Status**     |
|:---           |:---:          |:---:          |:---:           |:---:           |:---:          |:---:          |---:           |
|Adamantine    |Zero Stone     |Akaic    |Auri-El     |Aldmer/Orismer*     |Active    |
|Red-Tower    |Heart of Lorkhan    |Lorkhanic    |Lorkhan    |Chimer    |Inactive    |
|Snow-Throat    |Sun    |Magnic    |Magnus    |Falmer    |???    |
|Crystal-Like-Law    |???    |Akaic    |Altmer    |Altmer    |Inactive    |
|White-Gold    |Chim-El Adabal    |Magnic    |Ayleids    |Ayleids    |Inactive    |
|Walk-Brass    |Heart of Lorkhan    |Neglectful    |Dwemer    |Dwemer    |Active    |
|ALMSIVI    |Divinity    |Lorkhanic    |Almalexia, Vivec, Sotha Sil    |Dunmer    |Inactive    |
|Green-Sap    |Fruit    |Akaic    |Bosmer    |Bosmer    |Inactive    |
|Khajiit    |Mane    |Magnic    |Khajiit    |Khajiit    |Inactive    |
|Orichalc   |Sword    |Lorkhanic    |Sinismer    |Sinismer    |Inactive    |
|Pleonastic Spire***    |LYEDNAHARH   |Akaic    |HRAHNDEYL    |Echmer    |Active    |
|Talos    |Mankind    |Lorkhanic    |Tiber, Wulfharth, Zurin    |Mankind    |Active    |
|???    |???    |Lorkhanic    |Maormer    |Maormer    |???**    |

*See above about the Orsimer.

**I believe if the Maormer do have a Tower, it has probably been inactive for a very long time. The first reason is that it keeps with the idea of Mundus on its last support columns and the second reason is because I just got a feeling.

***I’m writing a piece about the Pleonastic Spire and will post it in a couple of days.

Notice that I separated Chimer and Dunmer, and listed ALMSIVI as their own individual Tower. I’ll get into that in a minute, don’t worry.

The Towers were created as mythic echoes of the three Ur-Towers, and all but two were created by the Mer (Actual, Namesake, and Evolved) races. The two that weren’t are Talos and Orichalc, which were created by men (because IMHO the Sinismer were really just Yokudans who wanted to be elves, were all warriors who fought left-handed, and didn’t like the Magnic view the other Yokudans had on the Aurbis. I mean, if elves that became cat people or bat people that evolved to look a bit like elves can be considered mer, then a bunch of men that wanted to be elves isn’t that impossible). Each of the Ur-Towers have Towers that are direct mirrors to it, as well as a race that use a Ur-Tower like their own personal Tower.

The Adamantine Tower is thought of as belonging to the original Aldmer, who eventually became the modern day Altmer. The Altmer then created their mythic echo of Adamantine with Crystal-Like-Law on Summerset Isles, which was followed with Green-Sap by the Bosmer, and the Pleonastic Spire by the Echmer. Adamantine then passed over to the Orsimer, who neglected building a mirror of it. Snow-Throat is unique because it is attributed to the Falmer, but they are Akaic/Anuic while Snow-Throat is Magnic. Because of this, the Snow Elves did not mirror that Tower and that responsibility fell to the Ayleids and the Khajiit, who created White-Gold and Lunar-Like-Sugar (hehe) respectively. Walk-Brass is also unique, as the Dwemer created it to not mirror any Ur-Tower as a symbol of their Neglect. Red Tower is attributed to the Chimer, and the Maormer, Sinismer, and Tiber/Zurin/Wulfharth created ??? (Coils-Like- Leniency?), Orichalc, and Talos to echo it.

But why are the Chimer and the Dunmer separated? Isn’t Red-Tower believed to be attributive to the Dunmer as well? Yes, it is. But no, it’s not. The Chimer didn’t make an echo of Red-Tower because they saw no need to. It wasn’t until the Battle of Red Mountain and their transformation into the Dunmer of today when a mythic echo of the Ur-Tower was created. When the Tribunal tapped into the energies of the Heart of Lorkhan, they ascended as Three-In-One and became the ALMSIVI Tower, with their Divinity being their Stone (because Towers cannot truly share a Stone with one another).

Also, note ALMSIVI’s similarities with the Talos Tower. Both consist of three people who are worshipped as one singular god. Both have one person who has achieved CHIM as one of the three people. Both of their Stones are tied to their worshippers (Talos needs Mankind to function; ALMSIVI needs the Dunmer’s fate in their godhood to function). The ALMSIVI Tower is unique however because they did not truly reenact Convention and still have their own individual consciousness still intact. However, ALMSIVI was believed to be deactivated when the Nerevarine severed their connection to the Heart, destroying their divinity. But Vivec achieved CHIM, so this allowed him to continue having his own personal divinity. Likewise, Sotha Sil became one with the Clockwork City, so you can’t completely kill him. Almalexia survived through both of them, even though she was killed by the Nerevarine. So ALMSIVI became inactive, but remained in a Tower like state. And that’s how ALMSIVI was their own Tower, the Tower of the Dunmer people.

There are 13 Towers. Eight are deactivated. And only Five remain. Thank you all for taking the time to read this, and good morning/noon/afternoon/night to you all.
