---
title: "Fangs of Sithis"
reddit: 218s1k
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-03-24T17:08:11Z
---

*Beware the Shadow. Beware its Bite.*

**Written By: Anonymous**

SITHIS IS NOT.

But SITHIS IS.

His Names are innumerable and can be counted. But they do not exist. His Parents are recognized and are not known. But they do not exist. SITHIS is like the darkness; it’s only there when its there and isn’t when its not. That is why He is the Shadow, and He surrounds and engulfs us with His nothingness that does not surround and engulf because it does not exist.

The Scales of SITHIS are dead and dry; husks left behind that only linger in place and do not move. Forget them because they do not move. Things that do not move don’t even know themselves. The Eyes of SITHIS are bright and search for His Scales. Why do they search for them? Because they hate things that do not move.

But the Fangs of SITHIS…

The Fangs of SITHIS Bite.

The Fangs drip their Venom on the weak, and those that are marked are then consumed. Those that are marked disappear even though they still exist, because that is SITHIS. Even the strong cannot hide from the Fangs of SITHIS. They will consume you, and your Name will become mere letters of no significance.

It is because of our Ancestors that SITHIS is in and not in us. The Venom of SITHIS dripped from His Fangs and their scales were darkened and became Shadow. But they were not consumed. No, because SITHIS needed of these scales. But He didn’t need them either.

SITHIS IS but ISN’T.

Those born under the Shadow are the Children of SITHIS, touched by His Fangs and were not consumed. He is their Father even though He did not seed them. Their mother is the Night Mother and this why SITHIS needs His Children. SITHIS wants the Night Mother but He can’t have Her. So He sends Their Children after Her. And they find Her. But do They find Him? Of course They don’t. But They do.

Because SITHIS IS but ISN’T.
