---
title: "Battlespire Report"
reddit: 21f4fz
author: ASAMANNAMMEDNIGEL
date: 2014-03-26T15:21:41Z
---

The following report was found buried under a stack of old documents and papers, sometime during the late third era. It details the operational history of an apparently classified battlespire, operating within the realms of Oblivion? It appears the empire have fallen a far way, if we are this reduced to squabbling amongst the provinces.


---------------------------------------------

**Imperial Battlespire X-008 - Code Name "Reman's Sword" -  Pelinal Class Battlespire**

*Covert reconnaisance battlespire - In active service since 3E340, declared MIA along with all hands, 3E355*

**Objective:** 

Battlespire X-008 "Reman's Sword" was used as an early detection reconnaisance craft to alert the empire of any impending danger from the waters of oblivion.

**History:**

*3E334* - Approval for the construction of 8 (X-001 through X-008) Pelinal Class Battlespires, for use in covert reconnaisance granted approval from the Elder Council. 

*3E339* - Construction of X-008 complete. Commander and crew to be assigned.

*3E340* - All X- classified battlespires are given greenlight to begin operations

*3E342* - "The Apocrypha Debacle". X-008 (along with X-007 &amp; X-005) responds to a distress call coming from X-003, orbiting apocrypha. 278 of the 330 crew of X-003 have abandoned the ship to investigate and remain on Apocrypha. Without adequate staff, the X-003 had come under the grip of Apocrypha, and was being drawn into the plane. Imperial command issued a stay on rescue mission into Apocrypha, and the remaining 52 members aboard X-003 were safely rescued. Remaining Crew of X-003 deemed MIA.

*3E345* - "The Battle of Coldharbor" - Denizens from Coldharbor begin the siege of X-004. Remaining X- classified battlespires in the operational area (X-008, X-007, X-005, X-002, X-001) join to reinforce. X-004 is captured by Coldharbor Daedra, and is crashed into X-001. X-007 is heavily damaged, though a succesful evacuation to the remaining battlespires is made. Imperial command orders a tactical retreat after the loss of X-002. Total losses reach 4 Battlespires, and 216 crew confirmed KIA, with another 1104 labeled MIA.

*3E347* - "Rescue of Legate Martonius Ardor" - A teleportation misshap aboard X-008, causes a Legate to be stranded in the Realm of Quagmire. Shadow Legion is dispatched, and a comatose Legate Martonius Ardor is retrieved. Legate's condition was said to be stable, but in a state of indefinite sleep.

*3E350* - "Final Reports" - During operations surveilling Quagmire, it is noted that sitrep's from X-008 become increasingly far and few in between. Notes of a strange gas leaking from the medical bays have rendered several of the hands unconcious, and unable to perform duty. A rescue battlespire is dispatched, but no sign of the X-008 is found. Search and Rescue through the waters of oblivion is conducted, though no results are shown.

*3E355* - Imperial Battlespire X-008 "Reman's Sword" Declared MIA, all hands declared MIA.   
