---
title: "Imperial Hegemony, part 2/3: Culture"
reddit: 2207ab
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-04-02T11:29:28Z
---

The status of a hegemonial power is not only based on its economy. Another very important aspect is culture, and how it treats others.

CULTURE

The strength of the Imperial culture lies in its tolerance and its individuality.  
Indeed, the Imperials are, along with the Bosmer of Valenwood, some of the most tolerant people on Tamriel, how little that says.  
Early signs of Imperial tolerance were already present during the First Empire. While the now united Cyrods hade a score to settle with the Ayleids, they did leave alone the few Ayleid city-states that survived the onslaught during the Slave Rebellion. While this was partially out of pragmatism, as the newly found Empire was still relatively disorganised and not able to besiege the cities, it did give rise to much trade, which showed more peaceful contact between the two races. This changed, however, with the rise of the Alessian Order, which ordered the destruction of the last remains of Ayleid culture.  
Another form of tolerance from the Imperials was the inclusion of the Akaviri into the Imperial court. While these had been the enemy of the past, the Imperial aristocracy saw a chance to include and assimilate the Akaviri, giving a huge influx of knowledge and skill.
This changed with the Akaviri Potentates, which was the end of Akaviri influence. Afterwards, Cyrodiil was yet again plunched into a time of disarray.  
With the Third Empire, a new wave of semi-tolerance was created. The Empire annexed the entire continent, imposing its own law, and attempts were made to out-manuever local aristocracy (which led to problems in regions which were traditionally strong on local fiefdoms, like High Rock, the Summerset Isles, and Morrowind). Still, the Empire allowed local religion and philosophy, and the Imperial Cult had just a slim presence in areas which had stronger local cults, as illustrated in the Province of Morrowind.  
While the Imperials have strong ideas on religion, with everything besides the Nine Divines generally deemed evil by the general populace, there is no legislature in effect to deny anyone their religious freedom. Daedra worship and necromancy are officially legal under Imperial law, but are still seen as evil by the people.

Apart from the religious aspects of the Imperial culture (which will be dealt with in a later issue), the social themes are incredibly important. The strength in Imperial culture goes beyond simple indifference; there isn't a strong idea that everyone should be entitled to their own believes and philosophies, but more that those aren't important issues. As a result, most people are not interested in the religions outside of their home (which led to many scholastic mistakes, like the common assumption that most Aedra are the same throughout Tamriel, just under a different name). The main strength lies in the Cyrodiilic adaptability. Cyrodiil was able to incorporate elements of their conquered territories. this lead to the use of techniques and knowledge from outside of the Imperial cultural sphere.  
This knowledge was not simply taken from outside of Cyrodiil. Due to the economy already being at strength, and the Imperial City being the strongest political centre on the continent, It had a huge attracting force to most in the Empire. With a huge influx of people from all walks of life, and all places of the continent, the Imperial City, and, with that, Cyrodiil as a whole, could benefit from all these fragments of knowledge and skill, learning and adapting. 

With this vast collection of information and techniques, the Imperials were able to create an even bigger imperium, further strengthening the hegemony.

