---
title: "Walking the World, Volume XI: Windhelm"
reddit: 23d0eb
author: phil_hinds
date: 2014-04-18T15:20:51Z
---

By Spatior Munius

*A comprehensive description of the city of Windhelm*
***

Welcome, friend. In our latest volume, we cover Windhelm. Spatior could not be more pleased to be at the oldest city in Skyrim. In the course of our tour, you'll see that Windhelm's riches extend from her people to the history and architecture that make up the city itself.

As ever, we begin our journey outside the city walls, this time at the stone bridge that crosses the White River way to Windhelm's massive gates.

**Windhelm's Surroundings**

Before crossing the bridge to the city, you should be sure to take in the sights. Look towards east of the stables and you see the farm owned by Clan Brandy-Mug and further on, the farms owned by a descendant of the shamed House Hlaalu and Clan Cruel-Sea. Look on your right when crossing the bridge and you see the docks, where we will visit later.

**Candlehearth Hall**

Step inside Windhelm's gates at it's hard to miss the large tavern in the centre of the city. Named Candlehearth Hall, it is said to been originally home to a great warrior named Vundheim from the early Fourth Era. When he died in the thirty-eighth year of the Fourth Era his son, Deroct, lit a candle above the hearth in his honor. Since that day, the candle still burns and as such the inn owes its name to this phenomenon.

**The Market District**

Travel west from the gates and you will enter the Market District. Here a blacksmith can be found along with stalls operated by the Nord farmers and the Dunmer refugees of Morrowind. An alchemists shop can be found at the rear of the market.

**The Gray Quarter**

The Gray Quarter, formerly known as the Snow Quarter, is the ghetto where the Dunmer refugees of the Red Year reside. It may well as be it's own pocket of Morrowind, for some of the dark elves refuse to intergrate into society, even going so far as opening their own tavern 'the New Gnisis Cornerclub' just so they didn't have to visit Candlehearth Hall for a drink. Some of the Dunmer I met complained of being forced to live in the slums, but scoffed at my suggestion if working for the Nords to give a better representation of themselves in Ulfric's Court.


**Windhelm Docks**

Walk down the stairs from the city and you will find yourself in the docks of Windhelm. The Argonians of the city can be found here working for the Nords and live here to avoid conflict with the dark elves. The East Empire Company has its headquarters here, but the company has fallen on hard times, leaving the building void of activity.

**The Palace of the Kings**

Re-enter the City and walk through the Valunstrad, or 'Avenue of Valor', and you will find the castle of Windhelm, the Palace of the Kings. Home to Jarl Ulfric Stormcloak, the palace was erected by Ysgramor along with the rest of the city in the First Era. Before one enters the palace, one should pay homage in the courtyard to the Commemorative Plaques of the Ancient Kings. 

These Kings were: Harald, who was *'13th in the line of Ysgramor and founder of the great Kingdom of Skyrim, where he established fair Windhelm as his capital'* ; Olaf One-Eye who *'subdued the foul dragon Numinex and reunited Skyrim after the war of Succession, and conquered the barbarous Reach'* and Wulfharth of Atmora, who was *'Ysmir, Shor's Tongue, Dragon of the North and noble champion who defeated the Direnni and cleaned Skyrim of the Alessian heresy'.*
***
Spatior has shown you Windhelm in all its grandeur, but there are a few places more to see. The walls of the city are easily accessible and well worth climbing for the remarkable view. 

That's all for Walking the World, Volume XI . Spatior does not know his next destination yet, but you can be sure that where he does go he will leave you a record of the best things to see.

Spatior Munius, World Traveler

