---
title: "Almalexia and Sotha Sil have an Argument"
reddit: 245noy
author: Jaridase_Zasmyocl
date: 2014-04-28T03:04:45Z
---

She was concerned with the matters of court. He was concerned with the matters of public service. She was concerned with matters of letters of law. He was concerned with matters of respect to the right individuals. She was concerned with future repercussions. He was concerned with matters of future repercussions. 

They argued. Both were equally passionate, but Sotha Sil was calm in his passion, and Almalexia was not. Her fervor rose against his still expression. She was loud, and her limbs moved as she argued about the rights of land owners. His point remained, and he argued about the rights of righteous people. Something was tantalizing about this point. 

Almalexia talked around this point, to try to prove it false. Sotha Sil would not yield his secrets. Snake-Faced Ayem curled a two-forked tongue around the point, silver and gold flowing from her mouth to try to eat it. Sotha Sil would not yield his secrets, and insisted on straight conversation instead of false openings and exits. Almalexia relented.

Sotha Sil argued his point of honor. Almalexia argued her point of political intrigue. Sotha Sil reassured her that with his voice on her breath, she would be completely fine. He reassured her again. He reassured her again. He reassured her again. With each assurance, Almalexia's anticipation grew that her anxieties might be alleviated nonastatically. With each increase of anticipation her arguments became more aggressive. Their argument reached a loud climax. With an inward half-sigh, Ayem said that maybe Seht was right.

This did not sit well with Sotha Sil, and he demanded she submit to his way of thinking. Almalexia did not wish to, but said she would listen to his argument, if he had any new ones to present. Sotha Sil was silent, but then split himself in two. Each mouth spoke different words that rang the same, and their arguments assaulted Almalexia from the front and from the back. Almalexia and Sotha Sil's hot words broke within their mouths, but still Sotha Sil was not still. 

He argued his point of the dues owed to friends, and his other self argued his point of not giving respect to those not worthy of it. She argued her point of technicalities, and of mer seeking fortune unjustly. He insisted on his point of use or lose, and his other self insisted on his point of public understanding. She returned with the fact that money talks when seen, and whispers when in pockets.

Vivec came while they argued and watched for a while, listening to their points and propositions. Vivec did not understand completely, and went inside of Almalexia to see things from her point of view. Understanding her desires and needs, he went inside of Sotha Sil to see things from his point of view, but met only his own reflection, grinning coyly. Vivec told Almalexia and Sotha Sil exactly what he thought about this argument, and left to do other things. 

Almalexia was made quiet by Vivec's response through her, and Sotha Sil's mouth was made still by being full of Vivec's secrets. Sotha Sil's other half grinned coyly however, and insisted that his points were so full of multiple meanings, and noble, that Almalexia would not be able to fully digest them, and if instead of eating them to make them her own in thought, she wore them proudly to present them as her own, all would be well. 

Almalexia accepted Sotha Sil's wisdom. She went to her court and gave her verdict with Sotha Sil's voice on her breath. The old Dunmer bowed his head in defeat and wept salty tears. The young Dunmer hailed the Queen as righteous, and bowed out of her presence without another word.

A giant crab walked out of the seas and onto the ground, before it sat down and took root, stretching its legs into the soft ground. It thanked the young Dunmer that led it to this resting place, and then it died. The Dunmer and his friends took the meat of the crab and gave it to those that needed it, and offered the most choice and succulent pieces to the Tribunal as tribute. 

Almalexia smiled as she ate the meat, digesting Sotha Sil's wisdom to make it her own in thought. Sotha Sil smiled as he ate the meat, re-stirring the Waters. Vivec smiled as he ate the meat, and stared through quivering water at his own reflection.
