---
title: "Dissentio Vampiris: A Sermon from the Blood Matron"
reddit: 24go5q
author: AlyxDinas
date: 2014-05-01T15:43:52Z
---

"*My dearest children and Scions, gather and attend the words of your Holy Blood Matron, Mother Lamae: forsaken by Arkay, despoiled by the King of Rape, Matriach of the Beautiful Coven, Keeper of the Rite, Lady of Midnight, and Pale Dame of Tamriel.* 

*Begin by knowing the truth I so often remind you of: you are not loved. Not by the God of the Cycle, the Great Forsaker. I served him gladly as priestess. So jealous was the Harvester that he created our curse out of spite. Oh, the envy of a daedric prince! The folly now that we have changed this curse to a gift! Indeed, it is only through your own strength that you have turned it into a boon. But we shall proceed to him anon. If anyone might spare us, and I do mean us for I speak of all of you, the pained fate of Molag Bal's cruel stain, it would be the Son of the Supreme Dragon. Yet, he stood idly by to watch us die and be reborn.*

*Make no mistake, my sweet children. You all bear the stain of that first sin although the Mortal's God could wash it away. Make no mistake, my sweet children. Your infection is no accident. It is my will that you join in my suffering and rage. Centuries we have spread our blood born brand and centuries the Forsaker has stood by and allowed it.* 

*Only I, your Matron and Mother, offer you love and a welcome embrace. Only I, your Sweet Protector, wash away your tears and set you on the path to joy. Rage against the Aedric Heavens! Scream so that they must listen and know of their failure! Curse the Forsaker! Curse the God of Ransom Turned Mercy! Curse, even, the Daedric Lady of Energies for she certainly curses you! Know that I am your Mother! You are of my blood! This crypt and it's black pool was the womb from which I delivered you all to the world anew!*

*But know that I am gravely disappointed in many of you. Oh, I have heard your sacrilege. Your heresy. You call the King of Rape your Kin-father and claim Clavicus Vile as your patron, embarking on exodus to Cryodiil. You worship the profane and embrace the First Sin. I offer one chance: renounce these vows and return to your Mother and I will show forgiveness. Continue in your error and I shall wage a war on you that this world has never seen. Every shadow you see will hold your doom. Flee and we shall chase you to Oblivion, to the heart of Coldharbour, and slay you deep in the dens of iniquity. Repent! Oh, my dear children repent and return to me!*

*To my beloved and loyal children, I offer you my unending love. For family is what makes you Scions. Hold yourself high above the Defiler's chattel. Know your supremacy. Multiply! Multiply! Multiply! You are the Mightnight Kings and Queens! You are the Newblood! You are Scions! From now until the end of time!*"
