---
title: "The Proctor IV: M'aiq and Friends"
reddit: 24n17c
author: RideTheLine
date: 2014-05-03T19:09:04Z
---

Make sure you've read [the](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1tp1oa/the_proctor/) [first](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1zzznj/the_proctor_ii_maiqs_revenge/) [three](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/21yxxa/the_proctor_iii_we_aint_lyin/).

Consider this:  

&gt; All matter is merely energy condensed to a slow vibration, that we are all one consciousness experiencing itself subjectively, there is no such thing as death, life is only a dream, and we are the imagination of ourselves.  

-Bill Hicks  

Sound familiar? I ARE ALL WE? This is a concept I've heard hippies and the like ramble on about. Universal oneness is a thing in philosophy, definitely, but the idea of a vibration was introduced to me by Devin Townsend (if that name is unfamiliar, you owe your ears an apology), who once tried to be a hippie.  

I think the idea of a universal vibration could especially apply to teslore for a few reasons.  
-The Aurbis is music.  
-Music is sound.  
-Sound is a vibration.  
Bam. The Aurbis is all one universal vibration, the hippies were right. Maybe now they'll get off my lawn.  

Now, if you recognize my name, you may remember that I only really post (well, my only memorable posts) about one [topic](http://fc07.deviantart.net/fs71/f/2013/019/6/a/m_aiq_the_liar_mtg_by_beetleguy-d5s07lh.jpg). Time to get thinking.  

So, firstly, read [this](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/21sd39/ive_seen_some_comments_about_tes_online_having/cggv8s0) compilation of comments. I have to thank /u/MareloRyan and /u/laurelanthalasa for bringing me up. My comment is basically what I'll be detailing here.  

So, now you've read the comments. There are four 'tropes' throughout the Dream, M'aiq, KINMUNE, Heimskr, and Pelinal. MK likened them to the Celestials from Marvel, which are primordial beings made of energy that seeded every other lifeform in existence and orchestrate the uni/multiverse. I hypothesize these figures as the "voices" in Anu's head. They are from waves of their own that collide with and shape the wave of the Aurbis. Now, when two waves meet, you have interference. There are two forms of interference, destructive and constructive. I propose three waves, the Aurbic, the Anuic, and the Padomaic. When one strikes another, you have an action, influence from a 'Celestial.'  

The Anuic wave is Anu's conscious mind. It's his voice that he controls and thinks with. The Padomaic wave would be like his subconscious, those thoughts in the back of your head, wether you know they're there or not, that you can't control. The Godhead is schizophrenic, after all, and if the Amaranth resembles the Godhead, it'd make sense for Anu to have little voices in his head.  

When the Anuic wave creates constructive interference, you have M'aiq. M'aiq comes as a liar, but he speaks the truth. His wisdom guides us towards the ultimate destiny, and he is shown to Love this world and its residents as himself, for we are him. I'd keep going, but I'd just be reiterating my previous posts. This is Anu's voice, him as himself. He is **The Proctor**.  

The constructive result of the Padomaic wave is Heimskr, the eternal fool. Heimskr claims to speak the truth  when his ideas are false and misleading. He is the honest man who lies, he is the trickster devil that opposes the Liar. Heimskr is the Anti-Proctor, he's that asshole kid that gives you bad information, he's a faulty textbook, or that preachy guy who thinks he's right but really needs to do some research. Listen not to his truths, for they are the skewed words of an honest fool. Heimskr is Anu's doubt, his inner fears. Heimskr is that which Anu conquered to become Amaranth, he is weakness. He is **The Devil**.  

A destructive force of the Anuic wave is KINMUNE. The robot became a witch queen who opposed the Padomaic Nords. There's also her connection to the Eye of Magnus, which we know the Thalmor were after. There also may be some connection to Aryenn. Thalmor, Altmer, sounds Anuic to me. KINMUNE would be Anu's emotions, those feelings that he has a degree of control over, enough to not be unconscious. She is **The Commander**.

Pelinal is the destructive Padomaic force. Dude's a Shezzarine that waged genocide on the Ayleids, I think it's kinda evident how he's a Padomaic force of destruction. This is that "call from the void." Pelinal is Anu's really jacked-up thoughts that sneak out sometimes. "Wow, that car is moving really fast. I bet I'd die if it hit me." You ever look over a bridge and imagine yourself jumping? Ever realize how fragile we are, that you could just stab someone mid-conversation and end his of her life? That's Pelinal. Think D&amp;D, Heimskr is a Devil, Pelinal is a Demon. He's not just any Demon, he's **The Demon**.  

I wish I could say that these Celestials form some badass superhero team like the Pseudo Sixth House, but they don't. Like I've said with M'aiq. They're hardly beings. They're just forces of nature that we perceive as beings.  

The idea of more Proctor-esque figures excites me. I've got thinking to do, ideas to process, Lies to tell.  

Always remember: Truths are lies, Lies are truths.

