---
title: "Love and love; Heaven Through Violence; CHIM"
reddit: 257fat
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2014-05-10T13:36:09Z
---

In the past few days, I have been thinking about Love and love and I wanted to share my thoughts with you guys.  Please share your impressions, I expect some disagreement with some of my points.  I say bring it on, but bring it on with Love.


**What is Love?**

Love in my own personal definition that I strongly feel to be correct, is that it is not a singular emotion, like anger or sadness.  Love is a spectrum of emotion, in the context of a powerful attachment to yourself or another person, place or thing.

**Love and attachment**

If Love was a Tower, attachment would be its Stone.  It wouldn't be love without the attachment.  You can have all the warm and fuzzy feelings of archetypal romantic love but if there is no attachment, it ent love.

**Love and unity**

In Divine love, we often discuss Love (big L) in the context of something which unifies, even by force.  It is akin to gravity, that which binds together all the titanic powers of the Aurbis, ultimately immutable and irresistible, yet within its limits there is great potential.

**Love unbridled**

Love without restraint is mundane.  It is all-consuming, and unsustainable in the context of Creation, but it functions fine in mortal terms.  Unbridled love in a relationship with another mortal can result in the lover losing themselves, an emotional echo of zero-summing. 

It is seen as the 'normal', archetypal love, romantic and all-defeating.  Laurel begs to differ, but that may be for a different thread/subreddit.

As described above, love is an admixture of all the more basic emotions, so it can include typically negative emotions such as anger, jealousy or sorrow, and without discipline, these emotions can overwhelm and dominate the relationship.

What makes an abusive relationship so complicated is that there is often no lack of love, but an abundance of those negative emotions in the expression of that love and attachment.

**Love restrained**

This is your Love under Will, and it is also where mundane love can be channeled into productive, sustainable forms of attachment and affection, that can last a lifetime and build a family or community.

Love under Will can have infinite aspects, with correct discipline, the lover can prune back any of the emotions within the spectrum, control them and create the kind of love that can achieve what must be achieved.  We can shape the expression of our attachments with the force of Will.

Mastery is when our attachments no longer keep us from our goals, without severing them completely.

**The Abortion of Kindness from Love**

Possibly one of the greatest challenges of Mastering Love (and love).  To remove the impulse to express love through kindness and generosity, yet maintain the attachment.

For some individuals, love (and Love), is a cruel harsh thing.  This is still not Mastery.  If one has never known kindness, one can hardly abort it.

No, Mastery is when you have known great kindness and tenderness in your attachment, and you willingly and knowingly delete it from your loving lexicon.

If the attachment can be maintained in the absence of one of its most valuable and sought-after expressions, you are truly the Master.

**Love as a way to avoid Landfall (negation)**

If love is an attachment, that attachment must be strong enough to resist the refusals sung by the Walk-Brass.

Jubal warns not of the need for that all-consuming archetype, that flares hot and bright and is quickly extinguished.

Jubal warns of a flame that when stomped and smothered is not extinguished, but whose embers can withstand the onslaught and be re-ignited into an everlasting warmth.


**What is Violence?**

[Violence](http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/violent) can be extrapolated to mean not only the use of physical force, but can be taken in the context of the root word [*to violate*](http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/violate).

To violate means to break a rule or agreement.  Or a Convention.

**What is Heaven through Violence?**

Apotheosis through the violation of Convention.  A mortal is meant to be bound to the Mundus.  Six are the Walking Ways to violate Convention.

Late is the lover that comes by any way but the Fifth.

**Violence and attachment**

Violence is an expression, like any language based on meat, not actioned with throat and Voice, but through hands and feet, bloodied and weary.

Through violence, the lover can bind their loved ones, they can dominate them, subdue them, bend them to their Will.  While not as socially accepted or understood by society, the pushing of boundaries and the breaking of rules can as much be an expression of both Love and love as any.

**Violence and unity**

Not all is hugs and kisses; see Nuclear Fusion.  Unity can be powerful destructive force, emitting much energy and chaos.  The real world examples of this range from destructive relationships to political alliances.

**Violence as a way to avoid Landfall (negation)**

Late is the lover who arrives by any way but the Fifth.  Numidium is not the Fifth Walking Way.  Numidium can be pre-empted by knowing Love before Landfall and resisting the songs of World-Refusals by establishing a strong Love and attachment to the world before it ever stomps down.

**Violence unbridled**

Violence as an expression of love and Love does not mean the lover has the right to lose their shit and beat the hell out of their attached ones.  That kind of Violence is unwarranted and destructive.  It divides, it does not unify, and causes fear and hate (separation).

**Violence restrained**

Like its parent spectra, love and Love, this expression must be Mastered in order for it to be able to unify anything.  Consent and understanding are paramount.  There must be a new Covenant to allow for the breaking of the old Convention.

**CHIM**

The commonly accepted Fifth Walking Way.  When you take all the above definitions and realize I AM ALL ARE WE, and through your powerful attachment to yourself, are able to see the infinite singularity that you are but a part of, while maintaining your own sense of identify or AE.

Once you have found this delicate balance in the maybe of yourself, your attachment to the world of which you are a part limits the use of your great power.

Your personal constellation of emotions that centres around your powerful attachment to yourself and the world becomes a binary system within you.  Your own internal duality, the first brush of a new potential.

A whole new world of You.  God is Love.

EDIT for grammar.
