---
title: "On \"Dragonlings\""
reddit: 25y8vf
author: Ushankaclock
date: 2014-05-19T16:17:36Z
---

**On “Dragonlings”**

***By Edgar Mariq***

*Let me preface this report by saying that the study initially began to clear up the archaic ignorance that still remained in some parts of the Breton province. Following the recent re-emergence of the ancient Dragonkind in our neighbouring province of Skyrim, it is clear that I must distinguish them from the so-called ‘Dragonlings’ of High Rock. Hopefully in the near future, it will eliminate the nuisance of passing through the more underdeveloped settlements of the Iliac Bay region and hearing tales of “heroes slaying dragons”, only to find a less-than-educated farmer holding up the corpse of one of these creatures.*

*

**On their Name**

Dragonlings, predictably, have been so dubbed due to the old beliefs that they are the juvenile form of the legendary race of creatures that ruled Skyrim during the Merethic Era. The first recorded instance of this colloquial term came about somewhere after the Nordic overthrow of their overlords; a commercial ‘Adventurer’s Handbook’ dated as the First Era lists the presence of “Young Dragons, or Dragonlings” in some of the deeper, darker caves of the region. Given the further learning of the Breton people since this time, it would be far more appropriate accurate to give them a name that does not suggest their descendance from actual dragons (which, as a matter of fact, are asexual creatures). 
However, as this attached title is has become a deep set tradition, these creatures will forever be known as such. Much to my disdain.

**On their form**

Dragonlings, as mentioned in the previously quoted First Era handbook, often make their homes in caves and abandoned forts. Given their vaguely similar shape, it is easy to mistake them for very large bats from a distance; a mistake that has caused the death of many careless explorer. These creatures tend to have a wingspan of between three and four feet, razor sharp claws on each foot, and the ability to spit fire from their mouths. It’s possible that their latter ability contributed to their confusion with dragons. However, the method in which these two species achieve this feat is vastly different; Dragons are able to breathe flames due to their mastery of the submagick known as “Thu’um”, or “The Voice”, an ability highly recognised in the traditions of Nordic culture. Dragonlings, however, achieve their immolating breath through an organic pouch of flammable toxins, concealed somewhere behind their forked tongues. Such toxins are often harvested from dead Dragonlings to use as poisons for hunting purposes, and is highly sought after by alchemists. 

Much like bats, Dragonlings nest by hanging upside-down from concaved areas in cave ceilings. However, due to their territorial nature, it is uncommon to find many of them nesting together in the same spot. Egg clutches of the species are usually found nearby to their chosen nesting area, consisting of amorphous masses of thick-shelled eggs gathered together in a kind of thick paste and hanging from above, often protected by their very aggressive mothers. 

**On their language**

It’s been noted in both folklore and older scholarly texts that Dragonlings possess their own tongue, listed in some older texts as ‘Dragonish’, and some figures of the past have been known for communicating to the creatures in it. While more concise studies of this language have long since been lost in archive fires during the Oblivion Crisis of the Third Era, it can be seen that the creatures do, in fact, possess a very primitive form of communication. This consists mainly of a collection of disjointed hiss-noises, along with coded taps of their claws upon surfaces. Evidence of a rudimentary written language can be found etched into the walls of their habitats, although I was attacked before I was able to give it a closer look.

Stories of man/mer speakers of the Dragonish language have been largely unbelievable and unfounded, and seem to only exist in children’s stories of Daggerfall heroes.

*

Given the evidence, dragons and Dragonlings prove to have almost nothing in common – their connections are rooted largely in fairy tales and warped rumours, and furthermore, it is foolish for a sophisticated people such as ours to hunt these beast to collect nothing more than a heroic reputation. Time and time again, their bones have proven to construct very brittle and useless weaponry. 

