---
title: "A collection of alchemists' papers, discovered in an abandoned house somewhere in Leyawiin."
reddit: 271iij
author: Asotil
date: 2014-06-01T17:21:07Z
---

**Anders' Journal**

**3rd of Rain's Hand, 3E 420**

I've done it! After much isolation, fermenting and distillation, I've produced the elixir! To think that the trick was to replace crushed giant's toe with Hist sap...simply astonishing! The culmination of two years' hard work is upon me now. I'll have to make sure to thank Grinds-Many-Herbs for telling me all this two years ago in a seedy Soulrest bar.

Tomorrow I shall go with Nergoth and we shall test it together. It's already worked on my test subjects so far. I am fairly confident that it will work on us. If not, then at least I have died in the name of a noble endeavor.

**Anders' Journal**

**4th of Rain's Hand, 3E 420**

I had to remind Nergoth that attempting production of the elixir by himself was incredibly ill-advised. It's a delicate operation that only very experienced alchemists such as myself are capable of. It's fortunate that I was there with a spare bottle just in time; otherwise, the poor elf would be living the remainder of his days in the body of his own pet mudcrab.

The testing begins this afternoon. 57 years old and I feel like a little boy waiting for his parents again. It's hard not to when the secrets of the mind are revealed to you.

**Nergoth's Journal**

**4th of Rain's Hand, 3E 420**

Ha! Ha ha ha!

That fool of a Nord led me to a fortune, as I always knew he would! He was stupid enough to test the drug on me. *Me!* After all those years, he still trusted me! I'd laugh if it wasn't so sad. And he told me where he kept all the reserves too! It was simple enough to overpower him once he was a stout Elf. Muscles are a great thing to have, especially if they're not yours to begin with.

I wonder how my old master's feeling in his new position as a permanent fixture in the basement. I couldn't kill him; too many risks involved, and I still don't fully understand how the entire thing works. Imagine the possibilities, though. One could switch minds with a Count or a King, or even the Emperor himself!

**Nergoth's Journal**

**5th of Rain's Hand, 3E 420**

I feel...strangely fatigued for some reason. I don't fully understand why. I had a full dinner and a good breakfast. 

Checked on my old master this morning. The bastard looked like he had eaten a meal fit for a king. Could it be possible that the potion switches more than minds?

In the back of my mind, I think I hear his voice. He's saying something...

**Nergoth's Note**

**Estimated 6th of Rain's Hand, 3E 420**

I can no longer bear it. I have stayed awake for days now, living in fear of what would happen to me if my mind slipped. I cannot do it.

I must sleep. Akatosh help me.

**Anders' Journal**

**7th of Rain's Hand, 3E 420**

My pa was right all this time. Elves *do* make the sweetest sound when they're set on fire, don't they?

The potion isn't permanent in its effects. I'm sure that tree-climber's learned that the hard way by now. It needs more testing. More trials. Perhaps an increase in the amount of troll fat, or a bit more moon sugar?

At least he's opened my eyes to some new opportunities. Once I'm done, I've got to remember to invite the Count over some time for a drink. I've got a very special one in mind...
