---
title: "Report to the Arkayn Directorate"
reddit: 27ah8e
author: mojonation1487
date: 2014-06-04T13:51:32Z
---

**Report to the Arkayn Directorate**

*~1st of Dawn's Return, 3E430*

Discord has been brewing within the ranks of our holy order. The higher circles have tried to suppress it, but war is upon us. I’ve seen it. The Seers have warned us of our own fall from grace, betrayed by those we value most. The Vermae. 

The Vermae have grown restless in this time of change, their aetherial aspects dimming in favor of the darker cloak of the underknown. They wear whispers as a defense and breathe vapors to conceal their motives. Twisted becomes their visage, declining in favor and respect and caring not for either.

Added protection has been given to the Maztiax, led by the Mankar-hul, most loved of the Maztiax, who promises that as long as the Maztiax stands, so too will our order. The Mankar-hul has built wards against the Vermae to stave off their lingering corruption and retain the holy sight of our Seers under his command.

Ever since the Nano-Blight Event of the Ur of the Gile, in which the Mankar-hul first appeared, he has yet to fail our Order. Inducting the hul into our Order was the greatest accomplishment of my career and when the hul ascends to his rightful place as Underking, Lyg will know true revelation and will know no limit to the heights it can reach. This is the word and the word is the law.

Praise be to the Lyg! Praise be to the Maztiax!

*~High Priest Xeril*

**High Priest of the Order of Maztiax**
