---
title: "The Rape of the Reach, or the Myth of Red-Eagle, Chapter V: Héstram fights the kings"
reddit: 27ts51
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-06-10T22:32:12Z
---

*Translator's note: The rest of the story contains multiple combat scenes between kings and queens. It is likely that these persons (if anything more than a literary creation or myth-echo) never entered in one-on-one combat. The ancient Reachmen shared the same sentiment about their leaders with the Nords, namely that victory and defeat are the responsibility of the king/general. The combat should be seen as an allegory.*

The new day dawned, and Héstram entered the Reach. She swept through the Reach, facing the kings in a sequence she saw fit.  
The first king to meet her was Renach of Karth. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every man slain from Renach, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Renach all of his men.  
"Let us meet face to face, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine are dead." said Renach.  
"You are right to say that, king of Karth. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Renach wore one sword in his hand, and one shield in the other, and Héstram had weapons to match. Renach wore plate mail of solid gold, and Héstram wore armour to match, only her Gold was white in colour. They fought from noon till dusk. In this time they only struck true, but had a defence to match. None of them shed blood from the other. When the sun was about to set, Renach let his guard drop, and Héstram jumped on his shield, cutting into Renach's face. Her sword scraped of Renach's skin [so that no one might recognise his life time]. Blood spurted from his face, soaking his armour and that of Héstram.  
"That was quick thinking, woman," said Renach.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship Kai, so that he might have you show age again."  
He kneeled before her, and this is how Karth fell to the Empire.  
The next king she met was Mashuig of Dráchstáir. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every men slain from Mashuig, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Mashuig all of his men.  
"Let us settle this one on one, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine are dead," said Mashuig.  
"You are right to say that, king of Dráchstáir. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Mashuig wore a bow the size of a grow man, and a quiver with enough arrows to cover the Reach. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.  
They fought from noon till dusk. Every shot of Mashuig was on point, but Héstram had a defence to match, and drew closer to Mashuig. Neither drew blood from the other. When the sun was about to set, Héstram threw her shield into the ground in front of Mashuig, startling him. She jumped forward, and poked out his eyes [so that he might never recognise the needy]. Blood spurted out of his empty sockets, soaking his armour and that of Héstram.  
"That was a swift move, woman," said Mashuig.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship Shtaerr, that he might heal your eyes."  
He kneeled before her, and this is how Dráchstáir fell to the Empire.  
The next king she met was Cíer of the Leap. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and from every man slain from Cíer, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Cíer all of his men.  
"Let us settle this in combat, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine are dead," said Cíer.  
"You are right to say that, king of the Leap. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Cíer wore chainmail, and a lance of solid iron four times his size. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.  
They fought from noon till dusk. Every jab and thrust of Cíer was on point, but Héstram had a defence to match. Every thrust took a chip of Cíer's spear. Neither drew blood from the other. When the sun was about to set, Cíer's spear had been chipped of to a stump. Héstram knocked it away with her shield, and cut off his Thrust-Arm [so that he might never decide between life and death again]. Blood spurted out of the shoulder-stump, soaking his armour and that of Héstram.  
"That was a deciding blow, woman," said Cíer.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship Úrci, that he might heal your arm."  
He kneeled before her, and that is how the Leap fell to the Empire.  
The next king she met was Fernhete of Sian Háirgramen. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and from every man slain from Fernhete, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Fernhete all of his men.  
"Let us settle this by ourselves, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine are dead," said Fernhete.  
"You are right to say that, king of Sian Háirgramen. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Fernhete wore a gold and blue robe, laid with radiant gems. In every hand burned fire and lightning, and his eyes shot frost. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.  
They fought from noon till dusk. Every spell from Fernhete was true to hit, but Héstram had a defence to match. Neither drew blood from the other. When the sun was about to set, Fernhete lost his magicka, and his spells became less potent. Héstram rushed forwards and pierced his skull with her sword [so that his mind might never work the same again]. Blood spurted out of the head wound, soaking his armour and that of Héstram.  
"That was a wise move, woman," said Fernhete.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship Julach, so that he might heal your head."  
He kneeled before her, and that is how Sian Háirgramen fell to the Empire.  
The next king she met was Huithar of Karthwasten. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and from every man slain from Huithar, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Huithar all of his men.  
"Let us settle this as kings, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine are dead," said Huithar.  
"You are right to say that, king of Karthwasten. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Huithar wore a iron breastplate, and in each hand a sword made of bone. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.  
They fought from noon till dusk. Every sword-feat of Huithar was sure to hit, but Héstram had a defence to match. Neither drew blood from the other. When the sun was about to set, Huithar became exhausted, and could barely lift his arms. Héstram disarmed him with her shield, and cut of his hands with her sword [so that he might never protect craftsmen again]. Blood spurted from his wrists, soaking his armour, and that of Héstram.  
"that was a safe move, woman," said Huithar.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship Zened, so that he might heal your hand."  
He kneeled before her, and that was how Karthwasten fell to the Empire.  
The next king she met was Fedelm of Réchthabd. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every man slain from Fedelm, she slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Fedelm all of her men.  
"Let us settle this as proud women should, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine dead," said Fedelm.  
"You are right to say that, queen of Réchthabd. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Fedelm wore a armour of glass, which reflected the sky, and on her back were enough javelins to have five grown men collapse from sorrow. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.  
They fought from noon till dusk. Every javelin was sure to hit, but Héstram had a defence to match. Neither drew blood from the other. When the sun was about to set, Fedelm ran out of javelins. Héstram had drawn closer and cut of Fedelm's feet [so that she might lose her connection to the woods]. Blood spurted from her legs, soaking her armour and that of Héstram.  
"That was a vengeful action, woman," said Fedelm.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship Cneréc, so that she might heal your feet."  
She kneeled before her, and that was how Réchthabd fell to the Empire.  
The next king she met was Máithramail of Némach. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every man slain from Máithramail, she slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Máithramail all of her men.  
"Let us settle this between us, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine are dead," said Máithramail.  
"You are right to say that, queen of Némach. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Máithramail wore a motherly robe, and held a claymore in her hands the size of a grown man, and never bloodied. Héstram wore the same armour or arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.  
They fought from noon till dusk. Every swing of Máithramail kept her enemy at bay, but Héstram had a defence to match. When the sun was about to set, Máithramail misjudged Héstram's shield arm, and Héstram knocked her claymore away. Héstram swung, and cut off her breasts [so that she might never suckle a baby again]. Blood spurted from her chest, soaking her armour, and that of Héstram.  
"That was a correcting slash, woman." said Máithramail.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship Marr, so that she might heal your breast."  
She kneeled before her, and that was how Némach fell to the Empire.  
The next king she met was Balgadb of Badb. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and from every man slain from Balgadb, she slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Balgadb all of her men.  
"Let us settle this with skill, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine are dead," said Balgadb.  
"You are right to say that, queen of Badb. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Balgadb wore a leather suit, which she wore as a skin, so that it did not impair her movement. In each hand she held a dagger, which was poisoned. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.  
They fought from noon till dusk. Balgadb dodged Héstram's every move, and struck at every angle, but Héstram had a defence to match. When the sun was about to set, Balgadb thought she was sure to hit. Héstram duck to the ground, and thrusted her sword up Balgadb nether regions [so that she might never over the friendship of her thighs again]. Blood spurted from her belly soaking her armour and that of Héstram.  
"That was a passionate thrust, woman." said Balgadb.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship Debhellach, so that she might heal your nether regions."  
She kneeled before her, and that was how Badb fell to the Empire.  
The next king she met was Léech of Sian Spír Flach. Their armies fought from dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every man slain from Léech, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and Léech all of his men.  
"Let us settle this in blood, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and mine are dead," said Léech.  
"You are right to say that, king of Sian Spír Flach. If this is what you want, then let's do this," answered Héstram.  
They met each other at noon. Léech wore nothing at all, standing only in flesh before the queen. His hands were empty. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.  
They fought from noon till dusk. Every hit of Héstram struck Léech, but he kept standing. Every hit of Léech was sure to hit, but Héstram had a defence to match. Only Léech was bloodied. when the sun was about to set, Léech could not take much more. Héstram plunged her sword in his Heart [which wasn't really there] and cleaved him in half. Blood spurted from his entire body, soaking his skin and that of Héstram, for it seeped into her armour.  
"That was a killing blow," said Léech.  
Héstram replied: "resend your Old Gods and worship none of my, so that they might not smite you any more."  
He kneeled before her before he died, and that was how Sian Spír Flach fell to the Empire.  
Only the Remainder of the Reach remained now, to which Héstram travelled.

