---
title: "The Rape of the Reach, or the Myth of Red Eagle, Chapter X: Orcí and Faolan Do Battle"
reddit: 28t290
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-06-22T18:00:32Z
---

Orcí was helped on his horse, and rode out to meet Faolan. He meandered through the forests, and met Faolan at a ford near his camp. There, Faolan was bathing, washing of the blood of his battle with Lúg.  
Faolan said: "I heard your hiss, Snake, and I see you eying me. Even though you are as treacherous as your name implies, I would not want you to attack me in the back. A thousand curses upon you by the Old Gods, which you have resented, if you tried. It is not a warrior's way."  
Orcí said: "we haven't met in years, and the first thing you speak is an accusation. Even though you saw it fit to exile me, I will still not drive my poison through your back, because, while I don't have a beard, I am still a Reachman. Get yourself geared up, Red Eagle, and we shall do battle at this ford, so that generations to come might recall this fight."  
It was done as said. Faolan outfitted himself in a simple loincloth, wearing the head of a stag on his own. Orcí wore a set of dinted iron armour, which was rusted around the bolts. Faolan wore his two bone swords. Orcí wore a giant wooden sword, which cracks were filled with green mold and moss. In his other hand was an old, rusted iron shield, which was as big as himself.  
Orcí spoke: "Let us fight from horse back, Faolan. I am crippled by your doing, and cannot fight on foot. It would not be a fair fight that way."  
Faolan said: "Fine then. I do not like you, Orcí, but I respect your request. I will comply."  
Faolan send Andoe to get him a horse. Andoe returned with a beautiful black horse, which had been in the stables ever since Faolan met Hirseinn. He climbed his horse, and took position on his side of the ford. Orcí rode on an old white horse, which was sickly.  
Orcí said: "Faolan, let's end this here. Héstram owns the Reach now, and I will further proof this."  
Faolan replied: "Try."  
They circled each other, and threw javelins at each other. None hit, for they were both too quick-moving. They continued this from sunrise to sunset. When the sun had set, both sides of the ford were covered in javelins sticking sky-wards. Neither had shed blood that day. They met each other at the ford, deciding to continue the fight tomorrow.  
They set up camps on the watersides. Faolan knew that Orcí was a snake, known to backstabbing and poison. Orcí knew that Faolan was an eagle, known to hunting and quick-striking. Neither slept well that night.  
When the next day began, Orcí spoke: "Hail, 'comrade'. Let us decide this today, for yesterday didn't bear fruit."  
Faolan replied: "Try again."  
They circled each other as yesterday, exchanging arrows with each other. Some arrows were true to their target, but most missed. They continued this from sunrise to sunset. When the sun had set, both were covered in arrow-shafts, and the sides of the ford were covered in arrow-shafts sticking sky-wards. Blood had been shed, but not enough. They met each other at the ford, deciding to continue the fight tomorrow.  
They set up camps on the watersides. Their wounds were treated by their healers, and for every spell and enchantment Faolan got, he made sure Orcí would get the same, for he did not want to win based on the aptitude of his healers. Faolan knew that Orcí was a snake, known to backstabbing and poison. Orcí knew that Faolan was an eagle, known to hunting and quick-striking. Neither slept well that night.  
When the next day began, Orcí spoke: "Hail, 'friend'. Let us decide this today, for yesterday was not deciding."  
Faolan replied: "Try again."  
They took up their spears, and charged each other through the ford. They jabbed and thrusted, and they switched sides of the ford like water in a whirlpool. They jabbed and thrusted and cut. They continued this from sunrise to sunset. When the sun had set, both were covered in cuts and bruises and blood, so that no surface the size of a splinter was not covered. Blood was shed, but not enough. They met each other at the ford, deciding to continue the fight tomorrow.  
They set up camps on the waterside. Their wounds were treated by their healers, and for every spell and enchantment Faolan got, he made sure Orcí would get the same, for he did not want to win based on the aptitude of his healers. Faolan knew that Orcí was a snake, known to backstabbing and poison. Orcí knew that Faolan was an eagle, known to hunting and quick-striking. Even though both knew this, they slept quietly that night.  
When the next day began, Orcí spoke: "Hail, 'king'. Let us decide this today, for yesterday was not the end."  
Faolan replied: "Try one last time."  
They took up their swords, and fought hanging half from their horses. They moved and struck and swung and cut, and many sword- and riding-feats were performed. They struck true each time. They continued this from sunrise to sunset. When the sun was about to set, Orcí dodged Faolan's strike, and sunk his sword in Faolan's heart-wound. Faolan fell from his horse into the water, and the bloodied water coloured the Eagle Red.  
Orcí spoke: "If I were able now, Faolan, I would demount my horse and cut your head off, as is custom. As it is, I will let you die here on your own in the water, not only because of my crippling, but also as a fair repay for the crimes you did against my person."  
Faolan replied: "You are a true snake, Orcí. You strike fierce and painful, but you need injury to kill your foes. You are not strong enough to kill them yourself, resorting to poison and infection. Be gone. I do not want to have your face as my last memory."  
Orcí rode away, back to Héstram's camp. Andoe had seen the whole battle from Faolan's camp, and now rushed to the ford. There he helped Faolan up, and carried him to the healers, who treated his wound to their best abilities.

