---
title: "An Introduction to Aelseny"
reddit: 292tur
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-06-25T18:21:18Z
---

> #Aelseny ##“It’s so for North it’s South, trapped in a distortion of both time
> and space along with the mind of my brother, LYEDNHARH. Here, everything is a
> reflection of him. Here, everything is silent.” – HRAHNDEYL to High
> Hypothesian Inati

**Aelseny** is one of the Adjacent Places, a place ‘Not-Quite-There’. The realm
was created ‘within and on the skin’ of LYEDNHARH, the Genius Loci of Silence,
as an extension of his Anti-CHIM when he apotheosized alongside his twin brother
HRAHNDEYL. Thus, it has always existed and will continue to exist. It is an
‘inversion’ of the islands of Yneslea, and ‘exists’ (if one can truly say it) in
the same universe as the Adjacent Place known as Lyg. The two rarely interact
with one another, however, on the occasions they do the results are usually
deadly.

Unlike Yneslea, which is compromised of two main islands and a series of smaller
islands, Aelseny is one great landmass that floats in the clouds surrounded by a
purple, hazy sky. The two are intrinsically linked, but at the same time are
wholly separated. Like Lyg, Aelseny is in the future, inverted because of the
distortion of time and the Silence God’s beliefs. It’s so far North that it’s
South, a snake with heads at both ends trying to capture the other so it can eat
it. Aelseny will always be in the future even though it was never there in the
past. It’s tough to talk about how time in the place flows relative to Yneslea,
because Aelseny functions sort of like a parallel universe. Ten years on Aelseny
can translate to five hundred or two or even just eight minutes on Yneslea, but
at the same time may never translate at all.

LYEDNHARH’s vision is a mirror of the real Yneslea, forged from his own body to
be a place of independent thoughts that ran on his thoughts or it itself would
not know how to run. This Adjacent Place is merely a replica of Yneslea that has
been drained of color and life, literally ‘born dead’. Unlike Lyg and Tamriel,
where one has leaked through the paper and is on the bottom, Aelseny and Yneslea
are like a box looked at from one side: it looks flat and one dimensional from
that perspective, but in reality it is three dimensional with three more sides
to see. Are the other sides nonexistent if you cant’ see them even though you
know they are there? Are the three other sides within the one you can see, or
just invisibly alongside it?

Those questions are ones of the most importance, for while Aelseny is an ‘echo’
of Yneslea that you cannot hear but can hear you and is trying to drown you out.
Because the Silence God still exists on Yneslea within the Pleonastic Spire even
though he forged the Adjacent Place of his own skin, Aelseny exists alongside
and within Yneslea all at once and it doesn’t like that. Every so often it tries
to ‘Out-Voice’ Yneslea in events known as Screeches, where time is stabilized
between realms and Aelseny attempts to deafen the Ice Cream Isle as it adds it
to itself. These events can also be accidentally caused by powerful events that
occur on Yneslea by either accident or on purpose that disrupts the aurbical
system.

The Adjacent Place is populated mainly by the ATEDA and all of their avatars,
albeit reduced to mortal forms capable of dying. They appear as menacing
automatons built with the likeness of LYEDNHARH with an immortal soul encased
within them, and wearing armor reminiscent of that soul. They are constantly
glitching, a process. These abominations are fully aware of their immortal
counterparts as well as their own, causing them to erratically move and
thought-words due to having two set of memories coexisting in the same place. It
is mad to even try to speak with them. It would seem fit to end their suffering,
but that is a lost cause: once they die, they simply reform as they were from
LYEDNHARH’s essence to continue protecting Aelseny, unlike its other citizens.

Mirror-Talkers, the cultists that follow LYEDNHARH on Yneslea, also live on
Aelseny and use it mainly as a bastion. Their ATEDA Patron has ‘modified’ their
bodies to adjust to the sensory deprivation, resulting in their warp minds and
him being able to speak through their mouths. Seasoned Mirror-Talkers that have
stayed on Aelseny for far to long may find themselves glitching, their Ynesleaic
minds on the verge of merging with their Aelsenic minds.

The Kang are LYEDNHARH’s Hyu-Ket, pitch-black almost shadow-like goblins with
murderous intent and capable of killing without spilling blood. Their eyes are
bright red to the point where they seem like their glowing, and combine their
roles as assassins with the glitching process and you have an unstable mutant
consumed by insanity.

Last but not least are the Aphonmer, the Aelsenic Echmer. They resemble Yneslian
Echmer, but have no mouths and are unable to use echolocation. The populace
communicate through written words and pictures, even though they have their own
thoughts which conform to LYEDNHARH’s own. Their professions are mockeries of
those that exist on Yneslea, their inventions devoid of noise and life and
replaced with the hunger for death even though they can’t have sweet release.
They are also infected by the horrid glitching.

According to HRAHNDEYL, his brother LYEDNHARH created it as an reflection of
himself to gather and train his forces to attack the islands of Yneslea. The
Talk God himself does not exist in the Adjacent Place, because there is no such
thing as sound on Aelseny; ‘speech’ is communicated through thought-words that
automatically appear in the mind but carry no tones at all, a horrible sense
that drives those who listen to it insane and sane and insane over and over
again. It is the sound of deafness.

The Pleonastic Spire exists on Aelseny, but it is digging into the ground rather
than the sky (and is known as the Laconic Spike). LYEDNHARH resides on a throne
outside of it, where he gazes upon his subjects that are creations of him for
all time. His own body functions as a Rift that keeps the unpredictable doorway
between Yneslea and Aelseny open, but is usually kept closed until use. One
traveling through the Rift will find themselves completely incapable of
predicting at what time period they will appear in on Aelseny; one may find
themselves in the First Era, or several thousand years into the future.
