---
title: "Mission Akatouch, Captain's Log: Day 40, Cycle B"
reddit: 295o99
author: Jaridase_Zasmyocl
date: 2014-06-26T15:43:57Z
---

He died with his Goddess, his Charlatan, his [REDACTED]. A vulture, she is, a vulture.

I have to start keeping a log, a journal of sorts. This will make sure that our travels are well documented, at least from my perspective. I am assured that only select pages will ever be published, the ones that are pertinent to the experiments we'll be doing, and the strange sights we're certain to see. *I no longer care what they think of me*

I want to weep for Llevan, but it would serve no purpose, as he cannot feel my tears upon his unbroken brow. 

See the price your loyalty to [REDACTED] holds. You will be brought the same unless you climb [REDACTED] or break the very rocks beneath you. Be gentle in your breaking, you are children of the dust before the children of the [REDACTED]

Being so far from Nirn I must wonder if anyone there can track our progress. I assume not, or we would have certainly noticed things like that presumed Aedric body flying around! What is a shooting star? Was the orange and blue ball of light a shooting star? Today, I was on the observation deck and noticed a streak of blue traveling between the stars. Alas, my poor mother

We see it, a black dot against the blue rain. The Dragon, and it is terrifying. Can we survive, swept against such a current? We must turn ourselves around, if our freedom is to mean anything. Turn, and aim for the Sun, or one of the smaller openings to Aetherius. 

What would the et'Ada in Aetherius think of our mission? To touch Akatosh?
