---
title: "The Rape of the Reach, or the Myth of Red-Eagle, Chapter XI: Faolan meets the Hagraven"
reddit: 29i0p1
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-06-30T19:54:58Z
---

Andoe and Faolan reached the healers of Faolan's camp. There, Hérnach took a look at Faolan's heart.  
Hérnach spoke: "I can not do much for you now, Faolan. I can keep you in This World for a short while, but as it is, you will not be able to do battle anymore. It is a shame."  
Faolan spoke: "It really is, Hérnach. I thank you for your help nonetheless. For as long as I have, I will defend the Reach and the Reachmen. I will lead them, even if they have to strap me to a pole to keep me up."  
So it was. Wherever Faolan went, Andoe came to support him, and Faolan commanded his troops, without taking part in the battle. Even though his troops were skilled in the Hunt, they endured heavy losses, and Héstram only endured a few.  
One night, Faolan and his men sat at a fire in their camp. Faolan was being treated for his wound, and troublesome of the future of the Reach. When he wanted to go to his own tent, two of his men came walking in, with a hooded woman between them. They threw her to the ground, and one of the soldiers was about to kick her.  
Faolan raised his hand and said: "Stop, soldiers. I can tell already that this is a proud woman of the Reach. If you hurt her, I will make sure the same fate comes to you a thousand fold."  
The soldier replied: "This woman was stalking around our camp, looking to find a way in. We were only defending it, and decided to bring her here to you."  
A crooked and sharp voice came from the hood: "Listen to your king, soldier! I am a proud inhabitant of the Reach, and I was only meaning to speak to Faolan without meeting any of you grunts."  
Faolan spoke: "Woman, take of your hood, so that we might speak face to face."  
The woman unclothed her clawed and feathered hands, and took of her hood. A hideous face, which was full of wards and scars and filth came forth, led by a beaked nose. Everyone except for Faolan was startled by this.  
The woman spoke: "I am named Morrígu, and I am one of the Háirgramen. We are sworn protectors of these lands, and we are willing to protect you and your men as well."  
Faolan replied: "That is a kind offer, Morrígu of the Háirgramens, but I am unable to fight as it is. My heart is bleeding and aching, and I will not live to see many moons. It is better to extend this favour to another warrior or hero or champion."  
Morrígu replied: "I am aware of your Heart-Wound, king Faolan, and that is what this favour will solve. Me and my kith are offering to replace your heart."  
Faolan looked at the Old Hag for a while, frowning his brows. He spoke: "What will become of me when I do this?"  
Morrígu replied: "It will put you between This World and The Next. It will also give you all the sword-feats and magicka-feats and spear-feats and spear-feats that you can think of."  
Faolan frowned again, and asked: "Why are you extending this offer to me? What are you hoping to gain for it?"  
The Háirgramen replied: "We have sworn to protect the Reach. You have also sworn to do this. Your victory is in our interest, and as such we are willing to try this dark ritual with you."  
Faolan stood up, and said: "So be it. I will travel with you to wherever you want to do this ritual. May it help me avenge the Reach and crush my enemies."  

*[Translator's note: The following passages are written in a strange dialect, without interpunction, and are mostly damaged by fire or torn with claws. The language is partially translated, and it mostly talks about Faolan's heart and Briarhearts, a plant native to the Reach. The language was probably used to give the passages a magical feel, and seeing the damage that was done on purpose, it most likely detailed the ritual Faolan underwent. No living oral tradition goes in depth on this, so there might be a social or religious stigma on mentioning it.]*  

Faolan came from the cave with a gaping hole in his chest. In it, the Briarheart was visible. In one hand he wore his sword Faolan, and in his other he wore fire and lightning and frost the likes have never been seen in the Reach. Morrígu stood behind him.  
She spoke: "You are Faolan, the first Bráircór -Briar hearted-. We will aid you in your battles, and we will perform the ritual on your lieutenants, if you want."  
Faolan stood with his back to her, looking at the fire in his hand. He did not seem to be aware of the Háirgramen behind him, or his surroundings, mesmerised by the Magicka he wore as never before. He looked up to the sky, and then down to the earth and streams and cliffs of the Reach.  
He screamed: "I AM REBORN"

