---
title: "The Rape of the Reach, Chapter XIII: Faolan's and Orcí's Final Battle"
reddit: 29z3ym
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-07-06T16:14:41Z
---

Héstram called for Orcí and Tulír, who were both still hiding from Faolan's earlier rage. When they were found and entered Héstram's tent, both looked pale, and it was clear neither had slept that night.  
Héstram spoke: "This king Faolan is still a problem. You have seen what he did to my men. I thought Orcí had killed him, but that doesn't seem to be the case. He also seems changed. When I did battle with him, he appeared to be mere mortal, but the damage he did yesterday seems more along the lines of the Pelin-El. Do any of you know what he is now?"  
Tulír and Orcí remained silent, looking down to the ground in shame of their form yesterday.  
Orcí spoke first: "I don't know for sure, queen of the South. What I do know, is that there is dark magic involved, one that none of your mages can fathom. If I were to make a guess, I'd say that the Háirgramen are involved, those you have come to call Old Hag. They are beasts that many Reachmen do not like to deal with, although Faolan might do it to further his goals."  
Tulír spoke: "What is he now then? This is no mere enchantment or alchemic effect. He seems to be a monster without reckoning, not mortal nor divine. Is he possessed by another spirit, or has he never shown his true force before?"  
Orcí replied: "He is possessed by his own spirit. If I am right, he is not himself anymore. When he stood on the hill this morning, the soldiers spoke of a hole in his chest, with a bright yellow thing in it. I think it is a replacement heart."  
Tulír frowned, and was said to have spoke the following words: "As above, so below."  
Héstram was said to say the following: "Indeed, Tulír, and we all know how it will end. I am blessed by the [Dragon/Eagle]^1, and he will not be a challenge. Still, I do not hope to meet him again, as my armour is still tainted with the blood of Léech. When it is washed clean of that, I will ride to the field again and slay him. In the meantime, I want Orcí to seek him out and slay him. Along with this, I want you to cut off his head, so that the same dishonour he brought to my legates will be brought to him. Dispose of his body in any way you see fit, but cut out his Heart, whatever it may be, and burn it. I do not want him to become a martyr, nor do I want to face him again, dead or alive. Do this, and you will be safe either in the City of Ancestors, or in the Reach as one of my Statholders."  
Orcí turned even paler, and without a word he turned around.  
Tulír spoke: "Is this the best course of plan, Queen Héstram? Orcí seems to be afraid, and I do not think he is able to beat Faolan as it is."  
Héstram spoke: "Orcí will do as I ask, or fail in the process. Either way, he will prove his worth, for I am preparing my own battle with Faolan. If Orcí survives, I can either put him away in our city, or leave him here, in this godsforsaken land."  
Tulír noded, and spoke: "That sounds logical, queen. How will you be able to beat Faolan? Your last battle ended in a tie."  
Héstram gave off a small smile, and signalled Tulír to leave her alone.  

Orcí made way to the camp of Faolan, still afraid of what was about to happen. Andoe spotted him arriving, and made his way back to Faolan.  
Andoe spoke: "Great King, the Snake is making his way to us, and he wants to do combat from the looks of it. What will you do, Faolan?"  
Faolan stood up, stretching his back: "Meet him and tell him to meet me at the nearest ford. I will fight him, and I will behead him."  
Andoe ran with the speed of the winds towards Orcí.  
Andoe spoke: "Snake, state your business in these lands of which you are no part of anymore."  
Orcí replied: "Greetings Andoe. I came here to challenge Faolan, as your new queen commands of me."  
Andoe spoke: "We do not serve the queen of the South, but only King Faolan. If you wish to do combat with him, you are welcome to. Meet him at the nearest ford, so that this battle might be remembered. He will be waiting for you."  
Orcí rode towards the ford, and Andoe returned to Faolan's camp.  
When Orcí came at the ford, he found Faolan already there. He was sitting on the far shore, and stood up as soon as he saw Orcí. He stood upright, without any of the rage of the previous day.  
He spoke: "Again we meet Orcí. This is the third time in a short while that we shall do battle. The first time you fled, the second you won, and the third you shall loose. It is mere fate."  
Orcí spoke: "So say you. I am better from horseback than you, it seems. And it would be unlike a warrior to fight me on foot, since I cannot stand like a normal man after you have injured me twice."  
Faolan remained silent, and picked up a rock. He flung it with huge force towards Orcí's horse, breaking the animals neck. The horse collapsed, and Orcí fell to the ground, unable to stand up.  
He spoke: "Many times have you accused me of bad conduct, king Faolan, but it seems you are now the one to act unworthy. I am unable to fight like this. Is this how you want to defeat me? You and your men can do better."  
Faolan drew his sword, saying: "everything for the Reach."  
Faolan cut of Orcí's head with a quick slice. He called Andoe.  
Andoe, hearing him from the camp, came running with great speed. He saw the headless bodies of Orcí and the horse on the ground.  
He spoke: "What happened Faolan? You do not call me for a horse, nor did you have one here."  
Faolan spoke: "I did not need one, as his horse fell before the battle begun. I killed Orcí to forever be done with him. Here is his head. I want you to bring it to Héstram's camp in the middle of the night and leave it there, so that she might learn of his faith."  
Andoe was silent and turned pale. He wanted to comment on the dishonour this fight brought to the Reach [as it was remembered by the water], but he did not dare to object his lord, for fear of his new and otherworldly strength and combat-feats.  
Andoe waited until night fell, and then sprinted to the camp of Héstram. He came with such speed that no man in the camp could see him dash by, only feeling a gust of wind. Due to the darkness, no one saw the head until the next morning.

*1: Translator's note: the word in the text is "én", which simply refers to a winged creature. The passage is an obvious reference to Akatosh or Kai, its Reach equivalent. The translation is left ambiguous not due to the exact word, but more due to the language. Some context is required for the modern reader. "Én" is a middle-Reachian word. Middle-Reachian developed from Old Reachian in the early second era. The recession of which this passage comes, as included in the "Book of past times" (Imperial Library of Winterhold, MS H 2.18 (cat. 1339), dated to c. 1E 1250-1350) is dated, due to textual analysis and the condition of the parchment, to the thirteenth or fourteenth century of the First Era when Old Reachian was still extant. The Old Reachian word would be "Fent". The word does not seem to be scribbled over or later included, even though the necessary linguistic developments would not happen in at least another one or two thousand years. Only theories allude to how this word found its way into the manuscript.*

