---
title: "Monomyth from Lyg: Vermaean, The Maker's Lament"
reddit: 2a5jb6
author: mojonation1487
date: 2014-07-08T16:10:55Z
---

In the beginning, there was darkness. The Maker’s light pierced the darkness, marking the first division in the cosmos. So it was that the Maker saw what had been done and thought it good. In the advent of the first interplay of the Maker’s creation, the spirits of the light and dark first found form. In this interplay, the Maker saw diversity and lamented, for he saw his brother in the actions of his children. *‘This is not as it should be.’*

So the Maker made of the cosmos a mouth, from whence a river sprang forth, to carry the spirits in it’s wake back to the beginning place. The spirits though, only saw an end and thus were forced to mingle and work together to survive. So the spirits found the path of persistence and finally longevity and the Maker smiled and thought it good. So it was good for a time and the Maker loved his children. For ages the spirits found their places in the cosmos, always new, yet always old. Out of the spirits, the two greatest to have found permanence struck an accord with their brethren. Brothers they were, in image of their Maker’s twin heads. The Maker loved them the most and so they were named, Aikha and Tilhan.  Though they quarrelled, as the Maker before them, they loved each other as the Maker loved them. 

The brothers loved their brethren as well and so guided them along the River so that they might too survive. So it was after ages of this that Tilhan had grown tired of running only to run some more. He came to his brother, lamenting his position as caretaker. Aikha, the light of the Maker, listened with care, for he loved his brother. Tilhan told Aikha of a new way to survive, a way that no longer required running. *‘We must pause, brother. All else the Aurbis claims in our fool running!’* 

And so Tilhan convinced his brother to help him and in turn convinced seven more, to better hold their new hope. So the plan was set, but they knew not how to begin. So Aikha brought Taikur to his brother, for Taikur had the knowledge of the beginning place. So the Aesiva, as they would style themselves, set out to forge their new place in the cosmos. 

So they toiled, crafting a new world for themselves in the design of Taikur according to the plan of Tilhan. A finite sphere formed and limit found purchase in the world. Taikur saw what had been made and lamented. *‘Tilhan! You were not forthcoming with your plan. Left out, the death of your brethren, you did. I am ashamed!’*

And so Taikur fled in shame, turning his back on that which he designed, unable to bear witness to his greatest effort. Upon seeing their brother flee and fully aware of the trap they had sprung upon themselves, the Aesiva attempted to follow suit, but found themselves bound to their creation. Aikha confronted his brother in a righteous rage, unable to comprehend the betrayal by the one he loved most. *‘Why, Tilhan? Why have you done this? Surely, you knew the cost?’*

*‘As darkness found purchase first in this cosmos, so shall it be in this world. We shall live on through our children, as the Maker lives through you.’* Tilhan turned to leave but Aikha would not allow it.

*‘Through me? Does the Maker not live through you?’* At this question, Tilhan only laughed. *‘Cut from different cloths. You are the Maker’s, I am his shadow’s. The darkness the Maker has ever tried to forget, so it will always find itself in the shadow of his own memory.’*

And so Tilhan left, to wander their new world and guide his children in the coming days. Aikha cried out to the Maker, begging him to forgive the Aesiva and was met with only silence. So the Aesiva gathered the brethren and together they walked the new world in despair. Aikha had grown darker, his radiance dimming in hatred for his brother’s betrayal. This hatred bordered insanity, for it was not in his nature to hate and he hated that he had been reduced to such. So he called a moot and gathered the spirits in a fashion of war. Thus did the Maker finally lament and a single tear fell from the cosmos.

Even as the tear streaked across the sky, the spirits were already warring with each other. In the final battle, the tear struck Tilhan dead and Aikha tore out his brothers heart. With a mighty bellow, he threw the heartstone across the world in hate and despair, for he loved his brother yet. Where the heart traveled, a veil was torn in the sky and the Maker looked upon his children for the last time. *‘Please! Take us back! We were deceived and wish only to return to the mouth that breathed us into existence!’* Aikha wailed and wailed until his voice grew hoarse. Only then did the Maker speak.

*‘Your brother has already met his punishment and so it shall continue. Over and over again, he will find purchase in this world, only to be forgotten again. As I could not vanquish my own brother, neither shall you. That is your punishment. Forever tied are you and him and together you will see all come to an end. For that is how you will always see things, a beginning and an end. Through this world and it’s limits, you may find atonement and realize at last; It’s all the same thing.’*

And so the Maker left, leaving his children in the depths of their deluge.
