---
title: "The Last Dragonborn: Precendents for Apotheosis."
reddit: 2a7qr1
author: Francois_Rapiste
date: 2014-07-09T05:09:36Z
---

If I understand right, soul stacking can lead to apotheosis. In the case of the Dwemer, they became the Numidium. In the case of Vivec, Almalexia, and Sotha Sil, they became ALMSIVI. In the case of Tiber, Wulfharth, and Zurin, they became Talos.

While Talos also has to do with CHIM and an enantiomorph, the Dwemer were an entire race, and ALMSIVI involves CHIM and the Heart of Lorkhan, I still wonder about the fact that the dragonborn is running around eating superhuman souls.

We see a dragonborn, who possibly has a shard of Shor in him as well, eating massive chunks of AE including that of at least one other dragonborn. Eating a dragon soul while returning Jurgen's horn strongly suggests that he's eaten another. He is the single greatest known repository of the Aka-tusk as of the fourth era, in addition to halfway mantling Miraak, Xarxes, Tiber, Wulfharth, Alduin, and probably others.

Then there is, surprisingly, vampirism. I honestly believe that blood sucking and soul sucking are very similar in TES metaphysics: the soul can be split up into the being's power and knowledge (which includes conciousness in the case of black souls). Blood contains power and knowledge, as I will rant about later in this paragraph. Being a vampire augments your soul's power such that it remains in the body and moves the body in spite of being dead, and even moves the body more powerfully than a normal one. Also, vampires clearly gain power from their victims, establishing precedent to believe that blood contains power, and there's also the fact that blood is mostly water and water = memory which is much of the victim's knowledge and conciousness. This makes vampire feeding resemble a partial soul trap, where the tiny soul fragment stolen from the victim is added to that of the vampire himself/herself. Vampirism is related to partial soul entrapment during the Dawnguard questline, and they share a connection to Molag Bal, leading me to believe that that pattern is intrinsic to Molag Bal's operations.

FURTHERMORE, vampirism is an example of Daedric magic, which is fuelled by a Prince's creatia as opposed to Magnus' power. So every vampire carries a little Molag in them, vamp lords more so than anyone else.

It doesn't stop there! The Dragonborn can also have a portion of Hircine's creatia by being a werewolf, and his Nightingale powers and Apocrypha magic also entail channeling creatia from an Et'Ada.

But most of all, she's a huge chunk of Aka-tusk even if you don't think that unnamed dragon fights are canon (although there's evidence to the contrary, like when Miraak steals your dragon souls). Altogether it will most likely not place her on par with the Numidium, Talos, or all three ALMSIVI, but those three figures are all beyond cosmic.

So, TESlore, where does that leave us?

EDIT: I forgot dracochrysalis. He's a conglomerate aspect(s) of the Time Spirit that has been to places where time doesn't work right and can nearly stop time by yelling at it. He's the closest to that concept we've seen in the lore except possibly good old Pelinal. He also traveled through time twice, although one was just a vision.
