---
title: "The Silver Sword Resurrection"
reddit: 2b6fz3
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2014-07-20T02:02:51Z
---

*Fellow Prelates of the Aldmeri Dominion,*

*As you know, we have been excavating what remains of the Crystal Tower in hopes of finding some remaining knowledge of The Ancestors. It has been our hope that we might find something allowing us to rebuild Crystal-Like-Law, but thus far our findings have been few. Almost everything was lost in its destruction. However, Auriel's light has guided us to an astounding discovery. The following text is a prophecy written by one of the scholars of the late Third Era. We believe it to be derived from an Elder Scroll and delivered here shortly before the Oblivion Crisis. You may find its contents intriguing.*

Behold the Silver Sword, given from the Aether above! Behold the Restorer, the water that revives the dead flesh!

 The Champions of the Dead Moons will try to stop its fruition, and they will be given power to fight the Sons of the Aether.

And on that day the oceans will fill with blood. The Fiery Shores of the Daedric Elves will be slick with the fat of fallen foes. The power of Auriel will shine against the Burning Mountain, and the enemies with hearts of Stone will wither.

The Chosen Knight of Auriel will enter that despicable cave, the world of machines and cogs. The Cog Ghost will slice his chest, but he will slit its throat!

The Stars above will watch him plunge the Sword into the False Law, putting to death that which bring death. 

And on that day the Bones of the Earth will live again. The Material Prison's gates will be broken. Those who are faithful will rise to the Aether to live among Auriel once more. Aldmeris will be reborn in splendor it never saw before.

Behold, the Silver Sword Resurrection! Behold the hope of the Aldmer, the bane of Lorkhan! May it come soon!

*Either it is the ravings of a madman, or this prophecy is the greatest hope we have seen since the fall of Crystal-Like-Law. I don't know about you, fellow Prelates, but I choose to believe.*
