---
title: "In the Shadow of the Tower"
reddit: 2be2f9
author: The_OP3RaT0R
date: 2014-07-22T12:56:49Z
---

*What is this? Nonsense at best and heresy at worst, that's what. Drelas, I assure you that if you continue penning these, you'll not be publishing them in association with this institution!*

*- Headmaster Brewin*

____

*By Drelas*

Azra Nightwielder was a genius. He was not the first to see the conflict of light and darkness in shadow, but he was first to know what forces were truly at work. Anu streams forth, piercing the void of Padomay forever, and they never touch, because there is nothing to touch. Yet they form the Gray Maybe, the Aurbis, the ultimate Shadow of Conflict. The system echoes itself. Light and matter wage an endless war. 

Six are the formulas to heaven by violence, but formulas are words written on a solid page, and when light strikes that page it resists and forms in its wake a shadow. Some read the words on the page, but others look beyond and into the shadow. Shadow is violence. Go to a battleground at sunrise or sunset, when the shadows are long and bloody, and seek enlightenment. Look to Azra's Crossing, the village built around the cavern, the secret sign he left behind; there is a greater space within a shadow than without, and that hole was a gift to us. 

Is Padomay a shadow cast by Anu, or is Anu simply beyond the reach of Padomay? Ask the shadows. What is Royalty? Look into the shadow of the Tower and see. A Shadow of Conflict is a leap toward enlightenment, for it is the shadow of the Arena. 
