---
title: "The Ways of The Princes. The Teller of Truth Discomfort."
reddit: 2cpj6g
author: bnmbnm0
date: 2014-08-05T18:00:54Z
---

**The One which was born to hide.**

In the first audible conversings spoke from Sithis’ Void the Prince Discomfort. And Discomfort hid in the shadow of the Mother of Darkness, and the Prince was confused in its purpose, for without pain where is discomfort? And the Prince watched and waited, for something to grab hold of, The Prince waited for the truth, and the truth was the flesh.

**The Queen of Fear.**

And so a time came when the White ones were bound, and the Complex Few where killed, and the Blackened Souls found rest, and Reality began to settle, and the grace of Nature and the White ones shaped the new things. And Discomfort visited the new place and went to the seeing things, Discomfort slid to the necks of those that looked forward, and tickled them, and they knew fear, and they were aware of there limits, and they knew they must turn. And Discomfort saw the Walking things and was jealous, Discomfort had nothing to walk with, and in all Her years of solitude she wanted play things, and so she took up the little things of the world and made dealings with them, She perverted them and made them to ooze, made them to crawl, to pulsate, to vomit to feed, and to swarm upon the other creatures of the world. And Discomfort went to the Ones That Stayed But Do Not Die, and spoke with them, and she bade that they lie with her to fill her belly with their meaning, and in Her womb, she instilled in the new things Her greatest gift, Hiding in the Shadow, concealing the horrors of their existence, And so the children of Repulsion swam in the deepest waters of Nirn and Oblivion, the writhing expansive Monsters of the Deep.

**The Perversion of Beauty, and Reverence.**

And after the Shifting of the first moments the Spirit of Beauty seeped through the Machine, and covered the creatures in beautiful wraps, to hide their souls, and she gifted the most beautiful skin to the Walking Ones with the Blackest of souls. But the Teller of Truths saw this for what it was, a lie, a covering, nothing more than golden paint of lumps of stone, and so she gave the Truth to mortals, and the Truth was Flesh, and their forms bore the marks of the Highest truth of Mundus, that they might die. And the flesh needed moving, and tending, and would bear witness to the Eagle, to show the marking of time. And the Bindings of Mortality bade the mortals to accept the gifts of the Highest Hole, that they must consume the Hoarders of Magics, and Drink the Waters of Ancestry, and the Truth Teller saw this disparity and went to the mortals saying, “you eat the plants and animals, and drink the waters, but soon there will be nothing left but your fat bodies, you will turn Mundus into flesh, and do you think this is fair? What will happen to the crawling things? I will give you all the gifts to maintain this world, that you will be unlike the Serpents.” and so Discomfort delivered the world the greatest gifts of creation, She gave the mortals the gifts of Piss and Shit.

 And the spirit of Creativity came to the mortal women and gave them a new gift, that of birth, and the Truth Teller saw this and was appalled at the fastidiousness of birth, and so she blessed the mortal women with new flesh to protect the children, and to connect them with their mother, and Discomfort came upon the women, in pregnancy and birth and nursing. And much blood and piss and shit would be made along with these children. And upon birth the collective memories of the hiding babe would escape the womb, for the things that hide in the darkest seas are the things of The One That Hides. And after the child enters the light Discomfort would bade the womb to cough up a second flesh, a bloody mass of meat. 

But still the Maidens of the Mortals were beautiful, and they met with the Males, and songs and poems were written about them, and the Mortals made love, and Discomfort made gifts, that The Gift of the Beautiful One, would be ugly, and she made the act messy, and seed stained cloths, and the maw of the women would leak memories of lust into their linen wrappings, staining them in brine. And a flesh grew over the women, that Love would not be without its sting, and blood would remind the love makers of their flesh, and the trials of Creating. But still the Mortals wrote and sung and cheered for the Chained Beauty, and discomfort was angered, so she visited the clutchlings deep within the Mortals’ womb, and spoke saying, “You that hide in the deeps of Mortals are my charge, and I the One the Hides bid you do as I say.” And the eggs listened, and when the Body of the Broken Snake changed its countenance one of the not yet made children would enter the seas of the woman, as is the charge of The Chained Mother, but upon entering the open waters the unmade child would cry to the Flesh, and speak it’s never life, and that life would be made into liquid flesh, and would escape the maw of women kind and further stain their linens, and Discomfort would visit the Mortals, to remind them of their Flesh, and their unmade child’s death, and their duty to discomfort, to the pain of birth.

 In Time The Eagle would bear down upon the Mortals, and the Guide of Spirits would carry up the souls of the passed, and the Mother of Winds would dirge for the dead, upholding the Memories of the passed high in the sky, to eventually cry upon the Living, to give to the farms of their children, to remind the Living of their loved ones. But the Guide and the Winds would leave behind the flesh, And the Truth of the Flesh would bade to the Living to not waste, to turn the flesh into Shit, and some few followed The Truth teller, but many turned to the Guide, to Reverence, and spurned the cannibals, and buried the dead, as was the plan of Discomfort, for the Flesh called out to the hungry creatures of the Plane, and Mortals had two choices, allow the bodies of their loved one to be eaten by creatures, insects, and cannibals, and made into Shit, allowing the Teller of Truths Discomfort, to remind Mortals of their own flesh and the gaze of the Eagle, or to bury the dead, to give them over to the Queen of Out of Sight, that she may profane them with her children, to eat them with worms and slugs.

*She is the Truth, She is the Queen of Filth, The Hidden things of Reality, She is Namira, The Balancer if Mundus, Fear Her, Lover Her.*

