---
title: "The Aftermath: Entry #4"
reddit: 2d3w1x
author: CreamWafers
date: 2014-08-09T23:56:47Z
---

**18th Morning Star**

Amaya,

I hope this reaches you alright. We were delayed by an ash storm which confined us to a tent, so I had no time to myself. Everything is back to normal. We began today in the Foreign Quarter.  This area suffered the least from erosion, but the bridge to the canton has fallen into the sea. We grappled an exposed sewer drain to create a rope causeway, then entered the canton via the shrine in the underworks. Less than an hour of water breathing was needed. There were a few objects of mild interest, but nothing unusual. Despite focusing on my work, I look forward to our wedding.

Always,

Lideg

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

**18th Morning Star, 4E 199**

**Ascadian Isles Expedition, Vivec**

**Report #1.1: Location 1.0**

Approx. Coordinates: 30720, -79872

Chambers: 5

Objects: 1

State: 5 submersed/dilapidated, 4 submersed/dilapidated, 3 partially submersed/poor, 2 not submersed/poor, 1 not submersed/fair

Object 1: location 3, class tool/metal, state poor/3 pieces, net lng. 10.33in./net wt. 5.71lb., text false, portable true

Notes: Object 1. appears to be a dagger.

*Signed,*

*Drusus Varo, Overseer of the Ascadian Isles Expedition*

------------------------------------------------------------

**17th Morning Star, 4E 199**

**Ascadian Isles Expedition, Vivec**

 **Report #1.1: Location 1.5.0**

Approx. coordinates: NA

Chambers: 1 (Inside Location 1.5)

Objects: 4

State: submersed/dilapidated

Object 1: location 0, class architectural/stone, state poor/2 pieces, net lng. 10.52 ft./net wt. NA, text false/illegible, portable false (attached, heavy)

Object 2: location 0, class organic/bone, state dilapidated/&gt;10 pieces, net lng. NA/net wt. NA, text false, portable true (skull only)

Object 3: location 0, class apparel/metal, state dilapidated/5 pieces, net lng. 3.85 ft./net wt. 26.51 lb., text false, portable true

Object 4: location 0, class misc/gemstone, state fair/1 piece, net lng 0.79 in./net wt. NA, text false, portable false (danger)

Notes: Location 1.5.0 appears to be a Daedric shrine. Object 1.5.0.1 is a humanoid statue, but unrecognizable due to its state. Object 1.5.0.2 consisted of bones from a whole skeleton, though only a skull, a femur, and a talus were identifiable. Other pieces were shattered beyond recognition. We chose to remove only the skull. Object 1.5.0.3 was attached to object 15.0.2, evidently armor that the person was wearing. Object 1.5.0.4 is cursed to summon a daedroth, most likely a dremora, upon contact with any life form, and is therefore classed as importable.

Signed,

Drusus Varo, Overseer of the Ascadian Isles Expedition

--------------------------------------------------

*Previous entry: http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2d2k6b/the_aftermath_entry_3/

*First entry: http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2cx8v6/the_aftermath_entry_1/* 


