---
title: "The Aftermath: Entry #16"
reddit: 2dyn32
author: CreamWafers
date: 2014-08-19T06:54:37Z
---

**6th Sun’s Dawn, 4E 199**

**Drusus Varo, Overseer of the Ascadian Isles Expedition**

As long as the ash storm persists, we are at a standstill. From my first experience with this, I was sure that a bit of wind and dust is powerful enough to defy the will of a god. But this time I take that notion more literally. Here’s why.

The storm is drowning out Azura’s voice. But I suspect it’s actually the ward. I had a dream last night and it was as vague as my first or second one. All I remember is crossing a bridge. Experienced a two-second sensation of fight-or-flight danger upon waking.

I’d be glad that my mood swings have dulled down, but they are only replaced with a worse madness: Amaya’s voice. I try to see it objectively. As a way to understand what we’re dealing with. But how ~~horrifying~~ ~~compelling~~ interesting it is. I try to notice the subtle shifts in tone and I fail. I observe the forming of more complex phrases, the meaning to extract from them. ~~I must ignore. Must resist.~~

~~I heard something ab~~ I heard something about a great work. A way to unite the believers under a powerful symbol. To travel to the tyrant’s realm and banish it. That as the observer, I determine the Event (the way it sounded suggested a capital letter, I don’t know).

~~Oh come on. Shit, I don’t even know what I think anymore. What I can really call truth.~~

I can have faith in nothing, except my own perseverance. Red Year wasn’t enough to start a new story. For better or for worse, I must settle the aftermath. It is my calling.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

*Previous entry: http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2dtpys/the_aftermath_entry_15/*

*First entry: http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2cx8v6/the_aftermath_entry_1/*

*If you are reading this on mobile, please note that some crossed-out text might appear normal, possibly messing up the tone and syntax. I hope you will bear with my terrible formatting skills.*

*Also note that I do not consider this my “headcanon.” It is merely hypothetical, and not meant to be stated as fact or opinion. Thank you for reading!*

