---
title: "An interoffice memo"
reddit: 2e35ui
author: RottenDeadite
date: 2014-08-20T15:18:37Z
---

Master Alammu,

By the grace of Azura's mystery, we have made a breakthrough.

Three months ago, Analyst 1st Class Ibene formed a joint initiative between some of our own archivists and the memory excavation department.  Together, these talented researchers have developed a technique called "holistic inter-materiel associative mnemolic ancestral conjunctions," although I'm told most of them just call it "scraping."  The practical effect of this "scraping" is that we can construct semi-authored memospore transmissions from inanimate archival objects.  So far we have performed this scraping technique on clothing and personal correspondence, but these initial tests lead us to believe that many other objects might respond to scraping.

I think this breakthrough will also provide you with an explanation for the sudden absence of Tibrol oil in our supplies.  My apologies for not properly documenting its removal.

I understand that you have recently recovered documents from an illegal recovery dive performed in Scathing Bay.  I think we can begin scraping these documents as soon as is convenient.  Please forgive my breach of security.  I know the existence of these documents is considered highly classified and heretical, but both the archives and memory excavation department contains faithful, highly motivated, yet curious devotees to the history of Resdayn.

Is our goal not the unveiling of the Truth?  Do we not desire to expose the flawed and mortal nature of the Tribunal usurpers?  Allow us to utilize this new and valuable technique on these recovered documents and much will surely be revealed.

Yours in humble service,

Archivist Ferru
