---
title: "Great House Evangelism/Noble Families of Cyrodiil - House Indarys of Cheydinhal"
reddit: 2e6zib
author: Blackfyre87
date: 2014-08-21T16:46:30Z
---

**Duty. Justice. Selflessness. Industry.**

These were the values upon which my elder brother, Prince Farwil Indarys, founded the Knights of the Thorn, the order which I, Ilver Indarys, now lead, and by the grace of Arkay, continues to defend Cheydinhal to this day.

Ours is a heavy legacy, one of service willingly given. We were once one of the most successful families in Mournhold, having distinguished ourselves as warriors in the service of House Hlaalu and being, effectively, the founders of the Royal Guard of the Ra’Athim family. Indarys soldiers served during many battles of the War of the Red Diamond. We ascended high in the service of the noble governor Symmachus, learning the art of war from the Dunmer’s mightiest general and mastering the pathway of the Imperial Knight. We also gained invaluable insight into how we could tie our pursuit of excellence in chivalry with the vibrant new commercial culture that was taking root in Morrowind under the wise guidance of the Royal House. Our unblemished and profitable service to the royal Ra’Athim clan served us to great effect, and earned us such renown on both sides of the Valus, that when the Tharns of Cheydinhal fell from power during the cruel usurpations of the traitor Jagar Tharn, of all houses in Tamriel, it was House Indarys which was rightly chosen to rule in Cheydinhal. Even then, when we embarked westward to our new homeland, we did not look on this as a reward which we deserved, but as a *duty* granted to us as Imperial Knights.

And this is as it should be. Duty is a vital component to the makeup of any great family. Without duty, the house collapses and simply becomes a collection of competing individuals. But not all noble families recognize this fact and it is House Indarys, the truest patrons of Imperial Knighthood, which carries the values of chivalry most dearly in our hearts.

You will hear no rabid denouncements of our enemies, nor witness the heaping of blame upon Empire or Thalmor within these words. Knights are seen and not heard. They do their duty and don’t yammer on about it. Let the scheming nobles who lust for power have their rants. Indarys live and die as knights, and it is as knights and by the standards of great knights that Indarys hopefuls are judged. My brother, Prince Farwil, learned these lessons the hard way, winning knighthood through blood and hellfire, and he emerged from the Oblivion Crisis the finest knight in Nibenay.

Not everyone can be a member of House Indarys. It takes skill with a blade and with light and heavy armor but also with mercantile matters and with speechcraft. All of these are necessary qualities to succeed as a Knight of Nibenay. The blade is vital, but it must be held fast by the wise knight, in a glove of silk. Horsemanship is also a vital skill for members of our house, for among the Houses of Cyrodiil, the Indarys are most renowned for riding to war as Knights. In times of peace, we also ride as Knights, but our duties center on the defense of the Ebony caravans, which bring much wealth westward from Morrowind. House Indarys has gained much wealth from its place as the finest horse breeders in Cyrodiil, which has aided us in cementing our place as the foremost of Nibenay’s Chevaliers.

Selflessness is also a vital quality of the Indarys, central as it is to our pious faith in Arkay and it has characterized our rule o’er Cheydinhal. We take our inspirations from Arkay and his saints, for they willingly gave up their blessed existences to give us the true path through life and death. Just as Arkay was willing to give of himself, we, the Indarys, gave freely to the refugees from burned Morrowind, and we offered the newcomers not only a place of safe haven in the green lands of Nibenay, but we were willing to lay down our lives to give the people of Cheydinhal time to flee the undead which wandered in the wake of the Floating City. When war came to Cyrodiil, we stood our ground, sent many of our sons and daughters to fight in the Imperial Legion and held the Thalmor from advancing to take Cheydinhal. Our Knights of the Thorn again played a vital role in crushing the Thalmor in the Battle at Red Ring Road.

Industry and Justice are among the cornerstones of the Nibenese High Culture, which the city of Cheydinhal and the House of Indarys are central pillars of, regardless of what lies and slander the Indoril persist in spreading about it. Industry and Industriousness have made Nibenay the economic powerhouse of Tamriel, and have served to finance the glorious Empire. It has served to feed the provinces when they are hungry, to render coin to the poor in need and build the infrastructure that has improved the lives of many. In our rule of the fertile, bounteous Nibenay Basin, breadbasked of Tamriel, who of all the Great Houses, even the plantation lords of Dres, have fed and sheltered so many Dunmer? None. Our caravans carry Ebony from Morrowind to the forges of the Imperial Legion and protect the finest of Cyrodiil’s warriors. Our exquisite Black Horse carries the vaunted cavalry of the Imperial Legion. Words need not be spoken about the value of Industry and Industriousness. Look at Indarys and see the results.

Justice is a vital part of our creed; within the domains of House Indarys, the people are protected by the absolute rule of the Imperial Law, which ensures that the powerful can not impose injustice and inequities on the people. Members of House Indarys are expected to remember that they are not self proclaimed demigods like the Archcanons of the Indoril, who look down from on high upon their subjects; Indarys is subject to the law, as well as its chief defenders. The Imperial Law, despite what the fools in House Dres and Indoril would proclaim has protected the Dunmer refugees in the west. Just look for yourself at the cities of Windhelm and Riften, which have foolishly declared themselves beyond the reach of the Imperial Law. Therein, you will see what it means to remove this law means for the Dunmer. Look too to the Houses of Indoril and Dres, our foes and see what they have wrought for their folk. Anarchy, poverty and traitorous misrule.

Like the revered Lady Azura, Goddess of Dawn and Dusk, House Indarys is of dual nature. In the gathering of the Dunmer Houses, we are both the outliers and the benefactors of the resilient and unbroken Dark Elves. Outsiders, for we sit beyond the borders of Morrowind, but benefactors, for without our shelter, tens of thousands of Dunmer would have been otherwise lost to the void, yet now live in prosperity and peace. We are Imperials, but also we are the truest of Dark Elves, for we know the value of family, home and hearth and opened ours without thought for our own comfort, when our people needed us most. If these values of Duty, Selflessness, Justice and Industry are shared by you, and you would rise to the ranks of a house honored by all Dunmer, then come to Cheydinhal, go before my brother, Prince Farwil, and kneel and swear your fealty and your sword to the Throne of Thorns.

*When you rise, if you rise, rise a knight. Rise an Indarys.*

