---
title: "Tribes of Tamriel, Volume IV: Clan Direnni of Balfiera"
reddit: 2em63g
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-08-26T10:35:06Z
---

While not a 'tribe' in the traditional sense of the word, the Direnni clan is certainly a group which did not receive much scholarly attention. This elven group has been influential in High Rock and Tamrielic history, and still continues to hold a presence in the higher echelons of Tamrielic science and politics.

The origin of the Direnni is not universally agreed upon. While the Direnni have extensively kept record of their history, many modern historians doubt the accuracy of these. Furthermore, very few sources have been given off by the vast archives of Alinor, which are still almost inaccessible for the Imperial scholar.  
The Direnni themselves hold that their lineage originated from Altmer merchants which settled the island of Balfiera in the early first era. The chief archivist of clan Direnni, Vorian Direnni, wrote in *De Origine Dirennis* (Belfiera University Press, 3E 430) that the Direnni clan originated from a family of farmers in the Summerset Isles. He holds that their name derives from the Diren river (nowadays known as the Caomus). Due to the increased stratification of the Altmeri society, the Dirennis switched from farming to mercantile, and started sailing the seas of Tamriel. In those days, the Altmer still held a sizable colony on the coasts of High Rock and Hammerfell. The Direnni quickly managed to barter and trade their way into the hegemony of these colonies, and eventually they found themselves as lords of the island of Balfiera.  
Many modern historians dispute this claims, namely due to the lack of archaeological remains found neat the Caomus river. According to the Breton scholar Georges Devareau, in his work *The role of the Direnni clan in the history of High Rock* (Royal IGS Press, 4E 137), the Direnni originated not as farmers, but as a junior branch of the Altmer royal family of Alinor. In the Merethic, many of the nobles fled due to civil unrest following the construction of the Crystal Tower, which led to social stratification of the area. The Direnni were one of those families, which fled to the island of Balfiera. Being cut off from the treasury of Alinor, as well as any military or political support, the Direnni were forced into a position of merchants, to gain the wealth that they once had.  
What followed is agreed upon by scholars, mainly because of the sheer amount of mentioning of the family.  
The Direnni quickly became the ruling faction in much of High Rock. Due to a monopoly on alchemic potions and poisons, they had steady and sizable income. This led to stratification and a division of roles within the family. The Direnni were not only merchants, but also generals, mages, politicians, scholars and many more of the educated professions. The tight cooperation of the family meant that they would hold on to their hegemony for a long time.  
The political side of the Direnni was one of the strongest on Tamriel, and this is why they survived for so long. During the First Era, the Direnni were mainly neutral in the major events of Tamriel, and only showed their military side when they were assaulted by both the Alessian as the Nordic Empire. This attack saw the end of most of the Elves in High Rock, although the core of the Hegemony would survive.  
When the Alessian Empire grew, the Direnni became troubled. The Alessian Order was now the mightiest faction within the Empire, and was threatening to the Direnni. During this time, the Direnni united many factions within Tamriel (including Colovia and Skyrim) in order to quell the Empire and the Order. They were successful, but the war had took its toll, and the Direnni were left with the Isle of Balfiera, the only bastion of Elven rule left in High Rock.  
When the Second Empire advanced, the Direnni were some of the first to accept Reman as their emperor. This again happened with the Septims centuries later.  
When the Warp of the West happened, the kingdom of Balfiera was incorporated into the kingdom of Daggerfall, while still retaining some autonomy.

Direnni culture is based around layers of family, and the loyalty one is expected to give to it. The inner layer consist of the direct family (parents, siblings, children), followed by the second layer which also includes grandparents, grandchildren, aunts, uncles, cousins, nieces, and nephews. The layers continue until the entire clan is included. Every Direnni is expected to help any other, but in how much is dependant on the layer the other is in. Where siblings would give their lives for each other, the great-great-uncle would only occasionally babysit his distant nephew, against a fair price. This system of loyalty makes the clan a very tight and well organised group, and leaving the clan is virtually impossible.  
The Direnni are still politically active, and an important part of their education is how to talk, as well as history and languages. This makes a Direnni a welcome sight in most courts, as well as a good advisor.  
While in modern times the clan covers all professions, magic and mercantile are still kept in the highest regards, and the patriarch or matriarch of the family will be specialised in one of these. Indeed, magic has an important role in Direnni history, as the founder of the clan, Asliel Direnni, is credited with standardising alchemy, as well as being accepted in the ranks of the Psijics.

The Direnni are not overly religious. They still preserve Altmer religion, but they do not see it as a defining feature of the clan. This means that many Direnni in more modern times have switched to the Imperial Cult, which is prevalent in High Rock.  
Apart from the Altmeri or Imperial cults, Direnni of the past have exercised forms of ancestor worship. While these practises have disappeared in modern times, Direnni still have much respect for their progenitors, although it is now more akin to a historical interest than anything.  
Probably the most striking feature of Direnni culture, and one that has survived the ages, is the coming of age ritual. When a youngster is deemed old and responsible enough, he is brought to the 'Stone' of Direnni Tower. While no scholar has ever been granted access to the actual room, it is clear that it contains very potent magicka. Many of the Direnni claim to have been overcome by strange sensations of timelessness or spacelessness. When pressed further, none of them were able to closer describe the experience or the content of the room.

The Direnni clan certainly was one of the most important cultures in Tamrielic history, being a major player on the political stage. While now just a shade of their former self, this family still holds much power within the Illiac Bay region, as well as the rest of the continent.

