---
title: "The Dreaming City"
reddit: 2etj09
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-08-28T13:19:17Z
---

Damasen, Talk-Fabulist of the Lorist Union
Circa 2E 580

Our kind often wonders how we are born, for our creation was not during the Creation. Our souls are attuned to the Void – a gift from HRAHNDEYL upon his apotheosis that spans to our inception – so we do not reincarnate on this world after death. Instead, we cease to exist fully as individuals and are released from this mythic prison.

So were do our souls come from if our ties with the Dreamsleeve are severed? Alas, that question has already been answered for you. By yourself, even. It is the land from which your earliest memory comes from: the Dreaming City.

It is neither a plane nor world nor chaos realm, but a state of mind. No, it is not even that for it is so much more. It is the culmination of all the melodies in the world and the consciousness of our people. A watery land made of visions spanning both time and space, from which our souls wade out of to enter our newly created corporeal forms on the Mundus.

To the more rigorous of our people’s scholars, the Dreaming City is nothing but an old fable created for our children. But others, myself included, do not believe this is the case. For one, all Echmer share the same experiences of the Dreaming City: a flowing road, a starless nighttime sky, and two suns. At the end of the road is the entrance to an Urb of light guarded by a gate. And once one walks through the gate…life. Of course, no one remembers anything after that for the minds of infants are unobservant but the fact is that everyone remembers the Dreaming City.

What we need to know – no, what we have to know – is why exactly does the Dreaming City exist. Who created it? Us? The ATEDA? Some other power in the Aurbis?

Maybe we shall never know the answer. But I do I hope we find it one day.
