---
title: "The Regions of Yneslea: A Field Officer’s Guide"
reddit: 2etk06
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-08-28T13:30:56Z
---

For Use by Officers of the Imperial Legion

Salutations, loyal officer of the Empire. If you are receiving this along with your briefing package, you have been reassigned to Fort Musicmoth on the Imperial territory of Yneslea. You have been given this guide to help you, and those men under your command, better understand the geography of the islands. Since you will be serving in Fort Musicmoth for a presumably lengthy amount of time, this information should prove invaluable.

Yneslea is split into the two main islands of Yne and Slea, with each being host to three different terrains. These six terrains themselves are host to one of the six capital cities of the native Echmer population. The five Penta Wards have one city each, and are led by the High Hypothesians that take up five of the eight seats on the Council of Dull Chimes, the central Echmeri government. The last city is controlled conjointly by the Troika, who make up the last three seats of the Council.

Of special note are the regions of Dweech and Hrahn’s Isles. The former is composed of massive cavern system that spans most of the isles that make up Yneslea, but the Empire has little to no access to them at the moment. The latter is a group of three smaller islets that have been recently sanctioned by the Echmer government for public settlement, but so far remains mostly deserted. They are mentioned here for your benefit.

Following is a detailed review of each region.

###Table of Contents

THE HAE’MACRIN MOUNTAINS	1

THE OPAL COAST	2

AMBIENT LITTORAL	2

GTUTUR’S ARIDS	2

THE MELODIC FOREST	2

URROAL	2

###THE HAE’MACRIN MOUNTAINS
Located in the northernmost part of Yne, the Hae’macrin mountain range is a frozen and barren place with little to no interest to both the native population and the Empire. It’s capital is the city of Mkikeff’lorisaz, which represents the Penta Ward known as the Coalescent Efflux. High Hypothesian Adamos is as cold as the stone here, and is indifferent to the Tamrielic operations in the are as long as they don’t interfere with his own.

Tread carefully here, officer. Snowdrifts are abundant, and the ice rains can leave you sick and blind you during the blizzard seasons. The little vegetation means that the creatures here are cannibalistic in nature, so always be on your guard.

###THE OPAL COAST
The most beautiful part of Yne (and the Yneslian islands in general) is undeniably the Opal Coast, which spans the western and central parts of the island. It is reminiscent of Cyrodiil’s borders with the province of Hammerfell, combining a prairie with a sandy beach environment. It’s capital is the city of Tije’geutsaz, which represents the Penta Ward known as the Shattering Fusion. High Hypothesian Chara is ill-tempered and quick to anger, so be mindful if you ever have to speak with her.

While this environment is perhaps the most serene, it also contains many dangers. Giant insects make their home under the sand, and wild yaks and wolves are known to attack travelers who stray to close to their territories. Be on your guard.

###AMBIENT LITTORAL
Ah, the Ambient Littoral. This is the region you will grow to love, for it is the center of Empire life on Yne as well as its sister island Slea. A taiga that strangely relies on saltwater, it was here that Uriel Septim V’s fleet landed when he first discovered the land in 2E 279. It’s capital is the city of Oexra’numsaz, which represents the three Troika. It is also the location of Fort Musicmoth and Port White-Gold, where you will probably be spending most of your time. The Troika – consisting of Delia, Seth, and Telamon – are perhaps the nicest Echmeri leaders regarding their position with the Empire.

It is a great spot for fishing and farming, despite its muddy ground. Just don’t swim to far off the shore, for sharks lurk about in the waters.

###GTUTUR’S ARIDS
This arid desert is the northernmost part of Slea, and is even hated by the locales for its blistering heat in both the day and the night. How it is so hot when the northern half of Yne is so cold is a geographical mystery, but not one an officer needs to dwell on. It’s capital is the city of Gratiu’tiusaz, which represents the Penta Ward known as the Hidden Perception. High Hypothesian Zosimos is amazingly merciful, but is also esoteric and slightly hard to understand sometimes.

Bring as many waterskins you can carry when moving through here to avoid dehydration. Giant scorpions hide behind dunes, their shells mimicking the swirling sand. Do not linger long here, and take wide strides.

###THE MELODIC FOREST
Protected from the northern deserts by a great ridge of rock, the Melodic Forest consists of nothing but acres of trees and vegetation to the central-east. The plant life grows so close to each other here that it is difficult to travel through this area, and the tree tops block out the rays of the sun. The capital is the city of Furq’mitysaz, which represents the Penta Ward known as the Confined Abyss. High Hypothesian Timaios is a deadpan introvert, so don’t be unnerved by his responses.

More tamer wildlife lives in the Melodic Forest compared to the other regions, and the land is ripe with alchemical ingredients for various potions, cures, and serums.

###URROAL
Completely barren and to the southern west, Urroal is the poorest region on Slea and the Yneslian isles in general. Riveted with chasms, caves, and completely devoid of vegetation, it is held in contempt by both the Echmer and the Empire but is surprisingly loved by those that call it home. The capital is the city of Raz’xensaz, which represents the Penta Ward known as the Neglectful Acceptance. High Hypothesian Ptolema is unnerving in her opinions on ethnics but strategic, and loves political games.

Rainfall is constant in this place, and a chilling breeze blows through the holes in the landscape. Hurricanes and thunderstorms are frequent in the area. But the most alarming thing is the Bruorl, some form of reptilian troll, that lives in the plentiful caves in the region.
