---
title: "On The Bleakrock-Yneslea Concord of 4E 20"
reddit: 2ft12n
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-09-08T13:36:13Z
---

By Lilelle Veloth

####DESCRIPTION

“Let it be written here that the inhabitants of the Yneslea archipelago – which itself is no longer a territory of the Tamrielic Empire – have come into a formal agreement with the Redoran holding of Bleakrock Isle, which is under the full control of that Great House of the Dunmeri people. The Echmeri Council of Dull Chimes and our House has and will always have a mutual respect for one another, which shall be fruitful to both parties present.” ¬– The first paragraph of the Bleakrock-Yneslea Concord

Remember our ancestral seat of Ald’ruhn, never forget its destruction at the hands of the Daedra during the Oblivion Crisis. Brara Morvayn led a group of Redoran soldiers to Solstheim to create a new home for us, but a small contingent led by Turath Telvayn decided to settle on the seemingly unimportant island of Bleakrock as a resting point for the sick and wounded. The Nord populace welcomed and aided our arrivals, sensing their pain. The hard-working mentality of the Redoran integrated firmly with the island’s way of life, leading to a healthy relationship between our two races.

When the entire province of Morrowind (with the whole of Vvardenfell basically being destroyed) was devastated by the eruption of Red Mountain in the fifth year of this era, our people was forced to flee to surrounding environs to survive the devastation. Bleakrock Isle – with its close proximity to Morrowind – was a primary target; but tsunamis and burning rock from Vvardenfell came crashing down upon it. The Nord citizens on the isle fled from the destruction, leaving the noble Redoran warriors stationed there to drag Bleakrock out of the ash alone.

It was here that the Echmer first showed sympathy to both our House and our race in general. As Consul Sirius (who sits on the 25th seat of the Elder Council) witnessed the Red Year, he immediately sent word to his native Yneslea to send as many supplies as they could to the refugees. In the first time in recorded history, Echmer ships traveled to mainland Tamriel not for trading or for Empire business, but to help. They made landfall near Blacklight, where they provided crates of medical aid and supplies before sailing back to their homeland for more. Although the Echmer weren’t present to help push back the Argonian aggressors, the provisions they sent were a key component to Redoran victory.

The Echmer returned after the fighting, bringing more supplies and several of their automatons to help clear debris and rebuild structures on mainland Morrowind (Vvardenfell had been deemed ‘lost’, but one day will rise again!). Some of the ships even traveled to Bleakrock, where Turath gratefully accepted the tools, food, and medicine the bat elves brought. By 4E 8 we were able to rebuild most of Bleakrock, although its environment had now drastically changed due to the eruption. Having felt their work here was done, the Echmer returned to their lands without receiving payment for their generosity.

In 4E 16, when the Nords of Skyrim granted the island of Solstheim to the Dunmer, they also included Bleakrock Isle after realizing that it had become more of a Dunmer territory. Turath, who was now one-hundred and sixty-three at the time, was made Councilor of the small island (despite the protests of the other Councilors, seeing it as a nearly worthless outpost). For many years we worked the land, growing food and reopening the iron and steel mines. Perhaps the biggest surprise was the discovery of ebony in our 18th year, which caused the Councilors on the mainland to gain interest in Bleakrock. However, that was also the year that Turath died – assassinated by Hlaalu agents. The traitors were executed, but the colony was wracked with grief. Turath’s light-hearted and kind son Azarien became the new Councilor despite his magically adept but stern twin sister Sherinah being seen as a more favorable substitute, creating a wedge in the family.

The next two years were hard as the Isle experienced famine and raids from Reavers to the north. Not knowing what else to do (and not wanting to ask the mainland or Solstheim for help to avoid looking weak), Azarien (always the explorer and diplomat, even if his new duties had hardened him) decided to create trading policies with the former Imperial territories to further income for Bleakrock. He sent a small diplomatic vessel eastwards, hoping to make contact.

The ship was attacked by pirates, but luckily an Echmer merchant ship heading towards Cyrodiil came across it and helped defend the Dunmer soldiers onboard. It’s shipmaster – a woman named Aspasia – helped the crippled vessel back to Bleakrock, where Azarien attempted to make negotiations with her only to discover she had to contact the Council of Dull Chimes for permission first. After speaking with her people’s leaders for several days through arcane means, the Echmer revealed that she had been elevated to the rank of Consul and that her people would be fine establishing a trade route with Bleakrock. Thus, the Bleakrock-Yneslea Concord was signed.

Till this day Bleakrock flourishes under the rule of Azarien, who has allowed the Echmer to establish sites on the Isle to help solidify our economic relationship. May our races continue to live in harmony if the Three are willing.

####EFFECTS OF THE CONCORD OVER THE YEARS

* House Redoran has monopoly on certain goods from the Yneslea archipelago (cream, fish, cheese, butter, etc.).

* An embassy was built on Bleakrock Isle to house the Echmer ambassador and his or her workers, who also make dealings with the colony of Solstheim. The small Exul village of Naroder was granted leave to be established on the island, with its citizens following Great House Law as well as their own Law.

* Bleakrock Isle remains primarily under House Redoran’s control, and is officially declared a territory of Morrowind dedicated to the New Temple. The East Empire Company is allowed to conduct business with the island.

* Necromancy is outlawed and becomes punishable by death (a decision supported by the Echmer).

* Echmer research, whether mundane or magical in nature, is declared not to be interfered with by Councilor Azarien.
