---
title: "The Country Gentlemans' Diary - 4E201"
reddit: 2gb21h
author: EnstoneDC
date: 2014-09-13T18:32:07Z
---

Hello Teslore! I'm a small time contributor to the Beyond Skyrim project at Dark Creations under the name Enstone, and I've been inspired in a lot of my writing by some of the fantastic books, articles and theories over here. So, I've decided to cross post a few choice bits and pieces. This little manual, inspired by the real life Special Auxiliaries Unit set up in the UK to combat an expected Axis invasion, will be dotted around a few choice homes and farms in the Cyrodiilic countryside.



The Country Gentleman’s Diary – 4E201



1) PREPARING FOR A THALMOR INVASION
                I - Overview
                II – Your Role as a Special Auxiliary Unit
                III – Basic Guerrilla Strategy

2) DESIGNING AND BUILDING A ‘BOLTHOLE’
			    I – Simple Dugouts
			    II – Advanced Engineering
			    III – Living off the Land
			    IV – Building an Armory
			    V – Foiling Search Parties
			    VI – Escape Routes

3) SILENT KILLING
                I – Knife Techniques
                II – Bows
                III – Simple Spells
                IV - Traps

4) GOING LOUD
                I - Longswords and Battleaxes
                II - Explosives
                III - Crafting Anti-Magic Armor
                IV - Siege Weapons and You

5) TARGETS
			    I - Reconnaissance
			    II – Forward Camps
			    III – Field Hospitals
			    II – Supply Trains
			    V – Forts and Castles
			    VI – Collaborators and Occupied Civil Districts

6) CO-ORDINATION AND ESSENTIAL STRATEGY
			    I – Legion Strategy in the Event of Invasion
			    II – The Chain of Command
			    III – Re-establishing Contact with the Legion and other Resistance Cells


SECTION I – PREPARING FOR A THALMOR INVASION

SUBSECTION I – OVERVIEW

In the event of a military defeat of the Imperial Legion by the forces of the Aldmeri Dominion, an occupation of Cyrod and its territories is certain. This occupying army will be brutal, bloody, and ready to use any means necessary to crush resistance.
And yet, the people of the Empire will resist, will persevere and will prevail, and as a member of the Special Auxiliary Unit, you shall lead the vanguard.
This guide, disguised as a humble diary, has been presented to you by a liaison within the Imperial Legion Special Operations Division because you have been deemed a person with the correct drive, attitude and ability to wage a guerrilla war against the invaders. Your liaison will periodically meet with you to ensure that you remain committed to keeping the spirit of the Empire alive, as well as ensure you are fully prepared for insurrection. Following an invasion, contact with your liaison will prove unlikely, if not impossible – as such, you will become self-sufficient, able to select your own targets and act independently until such a time that contact with the Imperial Legion can be re-established. This guide will take you through the process of constructing your own ‘bolthole’, a hidden retreat complete with air vents, safety mechanisms and armories, selecting a target that will cause the maximum amount of disruption to the Thalmor war machine, and ways of effecting your mission without drawing undue attention to yourself or your cell.
Finally, as an agent of the Special Auxiliary Unit, you will be expected to undertake life-threatening missions on a regular basis. The estimated operational lifespan of an agent in the event of an invasion is two months. Captured agents can expect torture and execution, and the most successful acts of rebellion will result in bloody reprisals from Elf soldiers on unarmed populaces. Effective resistance against the Dominion is utterly essential to the war effort, but it is not for the light of heart. If you have any doubts or reservations about your position, your liaison will provide the necessary forms to have your name removed from all records of active personnel.


SECTION I – PREPARING FOR A THALMOR INVASION

SUBSECTION II – YOUR ROLE AS A SPECIAL AUXILIARY UNIT

Put simply, as a member of the Special Auxiliary Unit, your job is to harass the enemy, wherever they may be and at whatever the cost. You will be quiet, efficient, unassuming, and above all, deniable. If war with the Dominion was to break out, Legion strategy is to -
(The rest of the pages have been torn out.)
