---
title: "People of Tamriel: Niranye and Celena"
reddit: 2gi76x
author: FelineErotica
date: 2014-09-15T22:51:54Z
---

Elevelynn Laemoth: Time Traveler and Amateur Historian

[Niranye](http://i.imgur.com/Mmo3KGA.jpg) and [Celena](http://i.imgur.com/AcJAfOK.jpg)

Niranye:
(4E 201)

"So what is it that you enjoy the most?"

"I guess fitting in with the Nords here.  It's true that they can be bigoted but if you make the right friends you'll fit right in.  People fear the unknown but if you make an effort, you can dispel that fear."

"What are your views on Ulfric's claims on the throne?"

"I think he earned it.  He fought the High King and won.  Just because the High King was a boy doesn't mean the rules can be changed.  Tradition is there for a reason and I'd rather have Ulfric than some 14 year old sitting on the throne.  Tradition keeps us alive and united."

"Isn't it Nord tradition to kill every Mer they see?"

[Niranye laughs and finishes her mead]


Celena:
(10E 302)

"So what is it you enjoy the most?"

"Getting paid.  Partying.  Enjoying yourself.  We might all die soon."

"Why's that?"

"Why do you think?  Gigantic trees coming down and devouring entire planets, Orc raiding parties and even The Dragon is beginning to age.  When time itself starts to age then you know you got a problem."

"What are your plans for the end of the world?"

"Like always.  Eat, sleep, rave, repeat.  Might as well go out with a bang.  Good thing I'm in Odbrii.  You know we're the Shez capital of the world?"

"Isn't Shez dangerous?"

"If you OD like an idiot, sure.  But do it right and you'll feel like a gods damned hero."

"Do you know the history of Odbrii?"

"Uh used to be called Windyhelp?  Windyhelm.  Yeah, Windyhelm or something.  Then the Dragonborn made it his city and changed the name."

"Okay, off-topic question: What do you think about those who follow old tradition?"

"Idiots.  The world has changed and you still want to fantasize about Kings, Queens and swords?  Grow up.  Get a job.  Sure if you learn from history you could apply some lessons to the real world.  But only if you show up to the real world.  Can't change the future if you're stuck in the past."

