---
title: "Guns in Tamriel"
reddit: 2i2s5p
author: Asotil
date: 2014-10-02T09:37:32Z
---

*by Dervyn Releth*

The *gun*, or *bo* staff (as it is more commonly known), is a wooden staff averaging around 6 feet in length that is traditionally used with two hands. Unlike the staves most mages are familiar with, the *gun* is not a conduit for magicka, instead serving as a melee weapon in and of itself. It was introduced to Tamriel during the Akaviri Potentate, and sees use mainly in the regions of Cyrodiil and Morrowind. 

Originally intended for use by Tsaesci warriors, the Reman Empire saw substantial changes in the structure of the Tamrielic variant. The grip was made to be usable even without claws and the length was shortened so as to accommodate for the legs of the wielders. Although falling out of favor shortly after Versidue-Shaie's assassination, the *gun* saw a resurgence in popularity in Cyrodiil during the late 2nd Era, shortly before the birth of Tiber Septim. It curried favor in Morrowind after the war hero Arnyl Morvayn of House Redoran used it in the Tiber Wars to defend against the forces of the Septim Empire.

Due to its nature as a blunt force weapon without spikes or blades, it is much harder to kill a foe with a *gun* than it is with a sword. As a result, *guns* are mostly relegated to non-lethal Arena matches and practice sessions. 

The *gun* is mainly used by the Fighters Guild in Cyrodiil, although Skyrim's Companions seem to be adopting it gradually. The Camonna Tong have also been reported to use *guns* for the purposes of coercion and extortion. 




