---
title: "Echmer: A Taint On The Aldmeri"
reddit: 2i6jw4
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-10-03T12:17:53Z
---

Aeneron Daelis, Thalmor Justicar

Before the Ynesleaic archipelago was annexed in 3E 279 there was no questioning the descendants of our mighty ancestors the Aldmer, who hailed from our sacred homeland of Aldmeris. First came the Altmer, the most pure of all elves and the inhabitants of our beautiful Summerset Isles. The Maormer, damn Lorkhan worshippers, were driven out from the isles and now plot in Pyandonea. Our more primitive cousins the Bosmer inhabit the jungle nation of Valenwood. The Ayleids of Cyrodiil – who are now rare in number and almost impossible to find. And the Daedra-loving Chimer were cursed by the demons they so lovingly follow and transformed into the Dunmer of Morrowind.

Although we would rather like to keep ourselves separate from our more bestial brethren, we must acknowledge them. The Orcs, who we call Orsimer, the disgraced followers of Trinimac. And the Khajiit, who were changed into feline forms after being bound to the moons.

We even remember the kin who have fallen. The Falmer were brutally massacred by Ysgramor and his 500 Companions when they returned to Skyrim. The Dwemer mysteriously disappeared at the Battle of Red Mountain. And the Lefthanded Elves were destroyed when Yokuda sunk beneath the sea.

But these ‘Echmer’…only a fool would call these beast-men elves! They don’t deserve to have the –mer suffix in their name. In the Empire scholars paint up theories about the Echmer being the changed descendants of the Dwemer that lived here on Yneslea. Too even suggest that these creatures are even remotely related to the Dwemer is insulting to their now extinct race.

Yes, these Chiropterans have a very advanced culture undeniably pertaining many merish ideals and customs (although it is still lesser compared to glorious Altmeri traditions) and even resemble elves in appearance. But they are not mer, just highly evolved and sentient bats. The exact process of this transformation is still unknown to me as of yet, but I will learn exactly how these bat-men came to be.

But I do know this: as long as the other races believe these creatures are of the same strain as all mer, then the goals of the Thalmor themselves our at risk. We must remove this blemish from the Aldmeri once and for all.
