---
title: "5E 274, p3"
reddit: 2j2c8n
author: CreamWafers
date: 2014-10-12T22:43:25Z
---

A quire fell from the book and onto the Underworks floor. Sul picked up the yellow-brown pages, whiping soot off the words: “Engrave upon thy eye the image of injustice.” He had never understood that proverb. *It can’t mean actually carve a little picture on my eyeball, can it?* Sul thought while he scanned the pages once more. *If I did have injustice carved on the cornea, I would see it everywhere, as long as my lids were open. And others would see it too if we stared eye to eye. That would be trouble.*

He secured the loose pages in place and closed the book, then ran his fingers gingerly over the cover inscription. The letters were ‘dric—the Daedric alphabet that had been outlawed for over two thirds of Edrin Sul’s life, though he had forgotten what they looked like. But the title page was more heretical, since he could read it. Sul found more comfort in the title than in all of the proverbs combined: not the *The Book of Endless Day* that lived in every Dunmeri home and brain, but *The Book of Dawn and Dusk.* He considered those words the ultimate dissent.

Sul was a garbagemer. He gathered refuse from the outlying settlements of Asciles and burned it in the Fire Cistern of the Underworks. Most laymer were not allowed in the Underworks, but the garbagemer was a respected and trusted worker. Two months before, Sul had noticed the book in a pile of trash destined for the Fire. Sul had taken the book knowing that it marked the beginning of his death. Now he reflected on that day as the most significant in all of his eighty-four years.

Midday chimes assailed Sul’s ear. He was standing in an alcove of the sewer tunnels, where the wall was gashed to reveal an old sewer drain that had filled with clay dust over the years. There was a mysticom hotspot within a yard of this alcove, but if approached from the proper angle, it was obscured by a mass of pipes in the ceiling. The chime was still achingly loud from close by. Sul winced. He needed to leave before the water rushed in. He crammed the book back into the drain, buried it in dust, and slipped past the mysticom, while mouthing to himself: “Engrave upon thy eye the image of injustice.”

~~~

The solery was still closed. Sul wiped the ash from the window with his sleeve and eyed the rack of boots waiting to be mended. His own had been removed, so someone must have begun fastening the tongues back on. He had spent five days in footwraps and his heels were callused to the point of becoming soles of their own, so he could stand to wait longer. Sul had not seen the shopkeeper for the past two days, however, so he became exasperated at the thought of never seeing his boots again. They were the sturdiest kind of leather: not synthetic fibers, but boiled netch skin from gray-pasture. Designed for trekking through the Underworks. Then Sul remembered the Khajiit and the Saxhleel, who were always barefoot.

She was watching him again. The Saxhleel prostitute. He could feel the stare as though it was familiar. And her ear bells were clinking too, so she was close behind him.

“Muthsera.”

It was undoubtedly her lizard tongue that had spoken. Sul turned around. The Saxhleel was carrying a mesh bag in both hands, and in it were Sul’s boots.

“My patron wants me to give you these. Drath, the soler. He couldn’t be in today.”

Before he could thank her she thrust the boots into his hands and walked past him. Their eyes met, though, and Sul saw something strange in the small black pupils. He was unsure whether it was a threat or something else. For a fraction of a second, it almost looked like the image of injustice.

Sul instantly forgot this. *Drath is not her patron,* he realized. *He is not a Temple curate. At least I don’t think so. Even if he was, and he needed more hands for the solery, this is a prostitute.* He grew restless. Many slaves were undercover Armigers, especially prostitutes. They were given to Temple members by their superiors for the sole purpose of filing heresy reports. Drath could have been in Baar Dau by then, and Sul was the next target. *The Book of Dawn and Dusk* had truly started the countdown to his death.

But Sul had made his peace two months ago. He tore the mesh bag and placed the boots on the pavement, then bent down and pulled back the mended tongue of the right boot.

He froze. There was writing on the inside of it. The letters were small but bold, written in the potent black ink that was not available to the common mer. Sul’s body turned cold with a nervous thrill. It was written in the Daedric alphabet.

---------------------------------

Abandoned this for a short while and decided to continue. Hope nobody minds. :) This won't be a long series. Might even abandon it again.

Link to the first part: http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2g5g3e/5e_724/

And the second: http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2gdz7x/5e_724_p2/
