---
title: "The Fall of Valenwood"
reddit: 2k0qz0
author: kingjoe64
date: 2014-10-22T19:12:21Z
---

***The Fall of Valenwood***

*Of all the kingdoms of Tamriel, Valenwood suffered the worst at the hands of Mehrunes Dagon during the Oblivion Crisis. Although the campaign was short-lived, the aftermath of his invasion would have long lasting effects on the forest and it’s inhabitants, shaping the land into the grim and perilous province we know today.* 

*The Wood Elves may have been the most deadly rangers in Tamriel, but they were no match for a Daedric army. While effective against beasts and men alike, arms of bone and stone have no effect on the flesh of Dremora, and so once Dagon’s forces arrived, they carved paths through Valenwood with ease. While Dremora and Lesser Daedra terrorized the villagers and their homes, mages and Atronachs began to set fire to the the sacred trees.*

*It was not long before the Bosmer realized that their last resort, was their only. Countless Wood Folk from across the province would sacrifice themselves to undergo the greatest Wild Hunt ever known. Once altered, no Daedra could defend itself from the writhing tentacles and venomous talons of the ephemeral mist-demons. At the same time Dagon had suffered a crippling defeat at the hands of Argonians and the Hist, who actually managed to enter and ransack the Deadlands.* 

*Once the changed Bosmer proved their might against the Prince’s armies, he retreated swiftly. While the Hist could alter their people and homes back to normal, the trees of Valenwood could not. Daedra had felled their grahts, and drove Falinesti to exile. Without the shade of the oaken-towers, the plants grew gnarled and twisted. Without caretakers, the vile beasts that lived in the undergrowth began to flourish. 
The lands of old Valenwood go by many different names now: Vilewood to the Empire, Dunmora to the Empire, and still, many others say home. Despite the dangers, through blood, sweat, and tears, the strong have carved their paths through the nettles and made these dark forests their own.* 

*Dagon may have dealt a fatal blow, but the forests of Valenwood will never die.* 
