---
title: "Thalmor Report on the Factions of Skyrim: The Companions"
reddit: 2k15fd
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-10-22T21:10:25Z
---

Here is the first entry in the new series. If you find any mistakes or would like to suggest anything, I'm all ears. Again thanks for the support and continued interest in these. 

This shall be distributed to all Justicars but applies largely to those working out in Whiterun Hold. The Companions are a small group of warriors who operate out of Whiterun from the mead hall Jorrvaskr. They claim to carry on the tradition of the original 500 Companions who migrated from Atmora to Skyrim. Nordic tradition attributes this group to the near, if not complete extinction of the race of mer known as the Snow Elves. They observe Ysgramor as their first Harbinger and patron. After he and his ilk conquered the Snow Elves, they continued to spread their influence across Tamriel, past the modern borders of Skyrim. All of this information comes down to us from either Nordic oral tradition or the incomplete *Songs of the Return*. If one feels like reading such a biased account, it is up to their own initiative. The modern Companions are a far cry from their ancient patrons. They are a relatively small group of warriors, who are more inclusive of different races, however the majority are still Nords. They still have a Harbinger who, from what we can see, only acts as an advisor to the group, commanding no real authority. Each individual seems to act of their own accord or will. The Companions seem to occupy the niche that the Fighters Guild holds in the other provinces. They accept contracts from locals and are paid for their services. While they seem to boast and declare their honor and tradition as sacred to them, the author finds it hard to separate them from a common mercenary group. It seems like this group has waxed and waned in ability and purpose. They have decreed that they will not party to any wars or any kind of political affairs. This renders them as neutral to our agenda here in Skyrim. 

Perhaps the only thing of interest involving the Companions is the nature of how which they acquire their weapons and armor. The Skyforge is reportedly where the best steel in all of Tamriel comes from. The Clan Grey-Mane have reportedly smithed there for generations. It’s origins are a mystery though. It’s told that after the Nords won the reconquest of Saarthal, they expanded into what now is Whiterun hold and discovered the Skyforge. Apparently the Snow Elves were fearful because “it was known to drive a magic almost old as Nirn itself, some remnant of the god’s effort to render a paradise in Mundus before the shattering of Lorkhan.” While this might just be superstitious Nordic nonsense, it may bear looking into. Any Justicars who can substantiate this claim will be well rewarded. 

While this predominantly Nordic group may invoke Ysgramor on many an occasion, it seems that they do not honor or worship Talos outright. We do have our suspicions about several members, namely the current Harbinger, Kodlak Whitemane. While it is our duty to root out and cull Talos worship wherever we find it, arresting and detaining the current Harbinger of the Companions would no doubt insight unrest in even moderate Nords. If you do find evidence of Talos worship, use subterfuge to put an end to the heresy. In short this group is a shadow of its former glory days of a conquering army that laid low even some of the most sophisticated mer. Now they are just a mercenary group with a better pedigree, by Nordic standards. 

Status: Observe for Talos worship, do not approach directly, Emissary Level Approval

By my hand and seal

Elenwen

