---
title: "Penitus Oculatus Dossier: The Second Treaty of Stros M'Kai"
reddit: 2k413j
author: Blackfyre87
date: 2014-10-23T17:10:46Z
---

*REPORT BY DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR NYTHRIEL ANDRONICUS, PENITUS OCULATUS, IMPERIAL CITY*

*The Second Treaty of Stros M’Kai is arguably one of the most important diplomatic works in recent history. In many ways, it represents an acknowledgement in the changing of how conflict will continue to work in the new, post-war Tamriel. Whereas the White Gold Concordat is often regarded as a humiliation of the Legion and the Empire- a belief not wholly justified, but not without merit- the Second Treaty of Stros M’Kai definitely represents net gains for the cause against the Thalmor. The treaty is a tremendously important model in demonstrating the importance of blacklist operations and proxy war as part of the relationship between the Empire and the Thalmor, something that has been ignored far too much since the Great War, with all too many military analysts simply forecasting the outbreak of a second continental conflict that will decide the fate of Tamriel. The wise observer looks beyond this complacent and unimaginative view of the game and sees the true purpose of both the White Gold Concordat and Treaty of Stros M’Kai- the Twilight War. This war rages in Skyrim even as we speak, by and large too subtle for Skyrim’s politically inept ruling class to take note of, but raging nonetheless.*

*The Second Treaty of Stros M’Kai also shows, however, just how much misinformation has been spread on this topic, even from within the Empire. In Justianus Quintius* **‘Great War’**, *the two main Redguard factions, Crowns and Forebears, are described as being reconciled to one another, but here in the words of the treaty, the implications are much different. Here the Crowns are clearly currying and accepting Thalmor favor, accepting the role they negotiated as holders of all of Alinor’s reparation money, in the hope that they can expunge the foreign influence they loathe, from Hammerfell. If they view the Thalmor as their equals on Alinor, they are sorely mistaken in assessing the Thalmor as merely a fellow xenophobic group. 
On the other hand, the Forbears are clearly currying and accepting aid from both the Imperial Government and nearby Imperial Vassals to strengthen their hand in the signing of this treaty. This gained them much capital, but only time will tell what the 188 collapse of neighboring Wayrest will mean for the Forbears, since they clearly counted on Wayrest’s support in shoring up their power. They have also, positively, thus far ignored Orcish aggression against Crown cities, which the Empire continues to give its tacit blessing toward.*

*All Specters seeking intelligence seeking opportunities within Hammerfell, must take note of the fact that the treaty is not signed by Hammerfell as a whole, but by the separate political parties active within Hammerfell. All agents should ensure they are completely apprised of any and all sociopolitical divides, and regularly updated on developments, not merely within Hammerfell, but within any posting they receive and accordingly ensure they recruit and cultivate their assets to ensure maximal effect in hampering Thalmor operations.*

*In short, though the treaty is more than twenty years old, it remains an exceptional example in how words can be more powerful than ten thousand swords and every Specter of the Penitus Oculatus must ensure they are fully prepared to utilize this power, as it has proven among the favored tools of the Aldmeri Dominion, and there is no better victory for covert operatives than to take your opponent’s weapon and turn it against them.*

*-Nythriel Andronicus, Deputy Administrator, Penitus Oculatus, Imperial City*

***

**THE SECOND TREATY OF STROS M’KAI**

This being the Second Treaty signed on the Island of Stros M’Kai, entirely and without exception superseding the first such treaty as signed in the year 2E 864. 

This treaty is penned to bring an end to the conflict within Hammerfell, between the Redguard People and the Aldmeri Dominion, and which began in 4E 171, between the Aldmeri Dominion and the Emperor of Cyrodiil, Titus Mede II. 

**SECTION I: THE PLEDGE OF THE ALDMERI DOMINION**

1) For the misfortunes tragically wrought upon the Redguard people in the course of a conflict with a third party, and in pursuit of a cause unrelated to the people of Hammerfell- that cause being the abolition of worship of the false god Talos- the Aldmeri Dominion officially expresses its remorse. Moreover, it expresses its admiration to all the Redguards of Hammerfell for their undying courage in war and steadfastness without the military umbrella of the Imperial Legion.

2) The Aldmeri Dominion hereby renounces any and all claims to territory within the bounds of the old Province of Hammerfell, and renounces all rights it may have claimed within the Province, except within the territories of the Kingdom of Orsinium, where the Dominion reserves the right to stamp out the worship of Talos.

3) The Aldmeri Dominion also formally announces its complete withdrawal of military force from within Hammerfell except for that which is necessary to the maintenance of the two embassies to be conceded to the Dominion by this peace, the first to be maintained in the City of Sentinel, capital of the kingdom of the same name and in the Kingdom of Orsinium, as per that kingdom’s adherence to the Imperial Writ of the Mede Dynasty, and the requisite *‘White Gold Concordat’*.

4) The Aldmeri Dominion agrees to payment of generous reparations, to be paid directly to Hammerfell’s ancestral rulers, the Crowns in trust of their wise judgement of Hammerfell’s needs. This is to make just recompense, principally for the grievous damage to the Redguard’s ancestral capital of Hegathe, as well as to the cities of Taneth, Skaven, Rihad and Gilane. These are cities which were assaulted at several points during the war.

*Notes: Agents should note the favor shown by the Thalmor to the Crown faction. Disruption of this favor should be attempted without fail. The best option here is to plant some form of damning evidence (Talos worship won’t work as bait in Crown land) or artifact, and have the Thalmor instigate a massacre. Hegathe or Stros M’Kai would be the best targets. Specters must ensure they are invisible and that the Thalmor are visibly implicated.*

**SECTION II: THE PLEDGE OF THE CROWNS**

1) The Crowns affirm their absolute right to sovereignty and religious and political noninterference from outside parties, and invite acknowledgement from all relevant parties of their just claim to leadership of the Redguards.

2) The Crowns hereby declare their acceptance, in trust for all Hammerfell, of the Thalmor’s payment of reparations and any other funds deemed necessary for the continuation of the peace laid out in this treaty.

3) By virtue of consultation with Aldmeri scholars of religion, the Crowns acknowledge and agree with the Aldmeri stance against the heretical and unclean worship of the false god Talos, who is heretofore to be known only by his Cyrodiilic name of Tiber Septim.

4) The Crowns acknowledge the Forbears’ assistance in the matter of the siege of Hegathe.

*Notes: The Crowns lack subtlety, are entirely bombastic, and do not have the same monetary purchasing power as their rivals. Yet their power in the hearts and minds of the Redguards should not be ignored, for they are ever the defenders of the ancient Yokudan culture, and are still much revered. Penitus Oculatus efforts in regards to the Crowns ought be utilized to push the Crowns out of their current ‘partnership’ with the Forebears and into full claim to rule as occurred in the Second Era. Whether the Crowns’ willingness to bed with the Thalmor stems merely from inborn loathing of the Forebears and Forebear Imperial inclinations, or whether the High Priests of the Yoku Faith actually sympathize with what the bizarre ‘Commentary on Talos’ indicates could be goal of the Thalmor is not known. Daggerfall, Orsinium and Balfiera divisions should make uncovering this knowledge a priority.*

**SECTION III: THE PLEDGE OF THE FORBEARS**

1) The Forbears affirm through this treaty, their right to dignity and self determination within Hammerfell and their freedom of affiliation, of practic and of worship without compromise of their dignity as the first of the Redguard people to arrive in Tamriel.

2) The Royal House of Sentinel pledges to enter into Dynastic Marriage with the Mede Dynasty and with the Royal Houses of Wayrest and Daggerfall, all to be celebrated at the expense of the Imperial Chancery, the better to stand as guarantor of this treaty and to honor the brave Ra’Gada who gave their lives in defense of their homeland.

3) The Forbears acknowledge and stand as guarantor of the rights and patron of those citizens of Hammerfell who choose to venture beyond the realm’s borders, whether in service to the Imperial Legion, Fighter’s Guild or any other affiliation with honor worthy of Hammerfell.

4) The Forbears accept, in their role as guardians and patrons of those Redguards who have embraced Tamrielic customs, any and all monies paid by the Mede Dynasty, Wayrest and Daggerfall, for the purpose of pension for Imperial Legionnaires, for the purposes of planning the dynastic marriages, for trade and for any other means that is deemed necessary.

*Notes: Forebears love the jingle of Septims, but they also love their honor. With the Forebears, we face a public relations challenge, and a direct provocation by the Thalmor, as they opted to locate their diplomatic embassy in Sentinel. Moreover, the Thalmor decided to insist that this embassy be integrated within the Imperial Ambassadorial Citadel, allowing them to appear to operate behind the shield of Imperial Authority. Care ought be taken to steer Forebear thoughts from war with Orsinium, lest we lose years of diplomatic work with Sentinel and the Forebears, as we would be forced to take the Orcs’ side completely, as they remain Imperial vassals, and a fertile recruiting ground for the Legion. (Alternatively, in extreme circumstances, the Imperial Government could consider that Sentinel might be offered a free hand at Orsinium in exchange for bending knee). At all times, we must continue to prod Forebear thoughts toward complete seizure of control of Hammerfell, as it is in this situation that the Empire will derive best profit.*

**SECTION IV: THE PLEDGE OF THE LHOTUNIC &amp; ALIK’R**

1) The Lhotunic affirm and assert their right to respect and adherence of both Imperial and Yokudan manners without sacrifice of dignity or honor before their brethren.

2) The Lhotunic pledge themselves to respect of the territorial integrity of all factions, and advise that this territorial integrity is an internal matter for the factions involved, and exhort their brethren to follow this example.

3) The Lhotunic pledge themselves to honor and uphold their tradition of mediation between and protection of the stated traditions of all Redguard people, the better to protect the interests of Hammerfell and its allies.

4) The Alik’r pledge their acceptance, on condition of the other parties’ fulfillment of their stated pledges, of this peace treaty, and their desire to return to the deserts.

*Notes: The Alik’r Nomads have generally spurned the Empire. Despite the efforts and actions of Imperial Legionnaires in the Alik’r Desert, there is little reason to suspect they will become assets anytime soon. Moreover, their lack of voice in the treaty clearly shows they are generally disregarded politically.*
*More importantly, the treaty, and the long continuation of the infighting in Hammerfell, shows that the Lhotunic Faction have also been muscled out in Fourth Era politics. Yet it is possible that in this time of peace between the factions the Lhotunics could become the linchpin of the uneasy coalition we see today. If so, all efforts should be made that they choose the Forebear rather than the Crown side. Realistically however, it may simply be more practical to have them all eliminated in a truly tragic accident and we pin this on Crowns, Thalmor or another party (Skyrim?). In death, the Lhotunics could be the key to sparking the civil war needed for putting Crown on Forebear brow.*

**SECTION V: THE PLEDGE OF THE MEDE DYNASTY**

1) The Mede Dynasty renounces all of its previous claims to Imperial sovereignty over the princedoms of Hammerfell, with the exception of any territories held by the Kingdom of Orsinium, in addition to any other kingdoms or groups, within the borders of Hammerfell, which willingly choose alignment with, or oath-sworn vassalage to the Empire.

2) The Mede Dynasty renounces any form of endorsement or connection with any and all attempts by the Imperial Chapel to proliferate worship of Talos within Hammerfell. It furthermore advises that all such clerics who continue in this unlawful manner will be legally in schism with the Chapel, until such time as their actions demonstrate commitment to the decrees of the faith.

3) The Mede Dynasty affirms that it will execute, those found guilty under Imperial Law, of the crime of desertion from the Imperial Legion. This includes those who practiced unlawful aggression against the Aldmeri Dominion in defiance of the terms of the White Gold Concordat.

4) The Mede Dynasty affirms its continuation and guarantee of the Septim as the legal currency of Hammerfell, as well as its extension of pensions and support to those Redguard Legionnaires and their families who qualify, unless these legionnaires are disqualified from these rights as per article V.3.

*Notes: Osinium held to the White Gold Concordat in 175, to the Redguard’s fury. Though in all honesty it seems foolish to expect any outcome where the Orcs would side with the Redguards over the Empire. Along with the disavowed legionnaires left behind from the march of thirst, and numerous Penitus Oculatus black ops teams which performed multiple dangerous missions in Hammerfell, the Orcs made up the principal military forces under Imperial Jurisdiction which fought in Hammerfell. ‘For safekeeping from Aldmeri hands’ (an irony that is particularly amusing when looking at banners of Trinimac borne by Orsimer legions) the Orcs decided to seize Dragonstar, the Dragontails along the Bjoulsae and came within a hair of taking Skaven and Elinhir. As such, the Eastern Marches of Hammerfell, excluding Elinhir and Skaven lies in Imperial jurisdiction. Priority should be given by the Oculatus to ensure that Elinhir falls into Orc hands, as it would give us breathing room should the rebellion in Skyrim go poorly. The Empire must continue to ensure it maintains Tamrielic economic supremacy, as our coffers will be our primary weapon should Hammerfell go to hell in a handbasket.*

