---
title: "Thalmor Report on the Factions of Skyrim: The Stormcloaks"
reddit: 2klish
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-10-28T19:17:25Z
---

This one is a bit lengthy, but was a hell of a lot of fun to write. Any mistakes or suggestions are welcomed as always. Thanks to everyone who's still reading these.

 For Justiciar Eyes Only!

New Justiciars to the province of Skyrim, this group may be one of the most important for furthering the agenda of the Thalmor. The Stormcloak rebellion lead by the Jarl of Windhelm, Ulfric Stormcloak is succeeding in pinning down the Fourth Legion in Skyrim, keeping them from holding the Cyrodilic border with Valenwood and Elsweyr. While the details of the plan are unknown to me this is undoubtedly where the Aldmeri Dominion’s renewed attack will enter through. While this rebellion continues, we ensure that the Empire is weakened through this infighting and will be unable to mount a proper defense of its borders in the future. However, we do not wish to see the Stormcloaks win a complete victory, while it would separate Skyrim from the Empire, it would be detrimental to our goals. The Empire would likely cut its losses quickly and consolidate all of its available forces in Cyrodiil. Our goal is to keep these misguide and ignorant Nords in a perpetual war with the Empire. This will cause a further drain on Imperial resources and keep them weakened as the Dominion makes it final preparations for war. These are the orders to every Justiciar, to root out Talos worship and achieve our long held aim to erase him from the mythic. Also, to keep the Nords inflamed against the Empire so that this civil war will continue unabated. In stamping out the Talos heresy, we keep the Nords in blind anger against the Empire and the White Gold Concordat. Many are too short sighted to see the larger picture that the Dominion is their real enemy, but what should one expect from the heirs of Ysgramor? 

This rebellion truly finds its roots in the end of the Great War in 4E 175 and the signing of the White Gold Concordat. The stipulations of the treaty are well known to any Justiciar but to reiterate, the banning of Talos caused particular uproar here in Skyrim. These embers of rebellion were ignited by Ulfric Stormcloak after the Markarth Incident. Ulfric himself is a veteran of the Imperial Legion who was captured before the Dominion took the Imperial City. I broke the man myself and lead him to believe that the information he gave up was crucial to the capture of the city, in fact it had already fallen before he broke. (So much for Nordic honor and pride.) He was allowed to escape soon afterward, a broken man was more use to us than a dead one. After the war he returned to Skyrim where he was petitioned to retake the hold of the Reach and Markarth from the Reachmen who had successfully rebelled and ruled the hold for two years during the war. They were promised free worship of Talos in return by a desperate Jarl, in blatant violation of the Concordat. Ulfric lead his Nord militia into the city and carried out all manner of atrocities upon the populace. We however had learned of this promise of free worship and called for Ulfric and the militia arrest, threatening to launch a renewed attack to uphold the treaty. They complied and arrested Ulfric. While in prison, his father, the Jarl of Windhelm died and after Ulfric was released, he was named the new Jarl. Soon after this High King Istlod died and the Moot (Nordic representatives elect the new High King) was called. While Ulfric agreed to appointment of High King Torygg, but his rhetoric bordered on treason and declarations of independence. It was not long after that Ulfric traveled to Solitude to meet with the new High King, apparently they expected Ulfric to petition Torygg to sue for independence. In reality Ulfric was there to challenge Torygg according to some barbaric Nordic custom. Torygg had no choice to accept lest he lose face. Ulfric, however, a war veteran and one of the few who can still wield power of the Voice. (Thu’um in ancient Nordic)  Accounts differ but Ulfric used the Voice to kill Torygg and escaped the city. Not long afterward the Emperor mobilized the Fourth to enter Skyrim and restore peace. Ulfric's capture by the Empire and prepared execution will be discussed in the report on the Penitus Oculatus. 

The rebellion continues and the civil war is perfect to our agenda in Skyrim. Justiciars should do all they can to keep furthering tensions among the Nords sending them to rally around Ulfric's banner. Indirect aid to the rebels is advised, but only enough to keep them from becoming overwhelmed and not enough to give them an advantage. Our leadership in Alinor has tasked us with weakening the Empire in this way so that our future plans for invasion will only be met with piecemeal resistance, and that the rebellion continues to be a drain on Imperial resources and manpower.

Status: Continue to patronize the Nords into rebellion, offer indirect assistance in the way of coin or weapons. However if threatened by Stormcloaks in any manner, terminate at your discretion. 

By my hand and seal

Elenwen
