---
title: "The Elt Chronicles – Chapter 1, Origins"
reddit: 2mk7y5
author: crikeylol
date: 2014-11-17T14:40:09Z
---

*As promised, here is the first chapter of the Elt Chronicles, written by Vekelt Nah’Seth, the first of the Elt* 

I began as a simple being, of a race of Tree dwellers, we were very slow, and it took us days to perform any form of physical effort. We lived in the jungles of the Beauty of Dawn, or as we call it in our language:  Seth’Thitithil.

We would’ve never changed if I, Vekelt Nah’Seth, the first of our kind, had not been taken by a storm. 

In what I esteem was around late 1st Era, I was sleeping in my tree, when a monstrous storm hit the south of Seth’Thitithil, and threw me into the sea. I couldn’t tell what was happening at the time, because everything was going so fast.

I woke up on a beach, close to death and far from my home. At first I felt utterly alone, far from my whole race. But that feeling didn’t last long, for I felt something overwhelming watching me, feeling me, but not threatening me. But I couldn’t see any other living beings, other than a forest.

There was a moment of uneasiness, until everything went black.
When I came to, I was lying on a pile of blue leaves, under a grand Tree, more imposing than any tree I had seen before. It was then when I realized that the uneasy feeling I had felt earlier, was the presence of this Tree.

A root came out of the ground and touched my forehead, then a sudden sequence of images flooded my simple brain; the history of Existence flew through my head at an incredible speed. It was done in a few seconds. The Tree then spoke to me, and somehow I could understand it.

*“I am the Rhys, the forgotten Tree; I have lived on this island since before it was an Island, since when it was but a part of the whole of Seth’Thitithil. I have given you the knowledge of Speech, so that you can understand me. I can teach you all there is to know about Existence, do you wish to learn?”*

I wished to learn, but I did not have the ability to talk yet, so I simply smiled, which took me a couple of minutes.

*“Very well”, replied the Rhys.*

A pool of glowing blue liquid opened up in the ground, and the Rhys’s roots grabbed me, and gently dropped me inside.

My body underwent a sudden change: My legs and arms grew longer and larger, my torso became big and strong, my ears grew pointier and my eyes glowed with blue energy, known to me now as Magicka. But my slowness persisted.

After I felt the changes were done, I exited the pool, and the Rhys asked me:

*“What is your name?”*

*“I…am…Vekelt…Nah’Ssss…eth”*

*“Welcome Vekelt, I have much to teach you.“*

