---
title: "On the Felling of the Oak-Father"
reddit: 2moi73
author: Omn1
date: 2014-11-18T17:17:33Z
---

*One of the few surviving fragments from a collection of ancient Nordic legends supposedly dating back to the founding of the first empire, 'On The Felling of the Oak-Father' tells of Kyne and the death of Jyrth, who, while now regarded as nothing more as an archaic forest spirit, here is clearly conflated with the Elven god Y'ffre.  It's unclear whether it's simply Alessian propaganda or an authentic myth.*
* * *
Long had Shor and his brother Ald fought, having been fated to do battle, having been born with this one purpose, having been shaped in the image of the conflict eternal.  Before both of them laid great armies of elves and men, creatures born from the breath and will of the gods.  Before each stood their thanes, spirits from before, gods of old, brothers and sisters, kin, broken from each other their hearts and their fates, kin broken from each other like Shor and Ald, like Man and Mer.  Of these countless kin, brother and sister, were Kyne, Sky-Mother, Storm-Wife, and Jyrth, Tree-Father, Story-Teller.  

With Shor Stood Kyne, Mother of Men, bound to Shor through love; with Ald Stood Jyrth, Lord of Oak and Pine, bound to Ald with oath.  Kyne stood with Shor, for her nature was of righteous fury.  Kyne stood with Shor, for she was kin to thunder, mother to lightning.  Jyrth stood with Ald, for his nature was that of harmony.  Jyrth stood with Ald, for he was lord of oak and ivy, of growing things.  Though they sought not to meet in combat, though bound as kin, though their love burned brighter than dragonfire, Kyne and Jryth at last did battle, for this was the will of fate.  

And so they fought, and they did this with their full power, for they knew that only one would live out this day.  And so they fought with fury that broke the earth.  As they fought, elves and men, warriors who fought for both kings, fell silent around them; they looked upon the spirits, they looked upon the great battle, and their hearts were filled with terror.  As they fought, the sun passed beyond the horizon and back again thrice over.  As the sun set on the fourth day, Kyne’s spear finally pierced Jryth’s oaken hide, and so Jryth was felled.

But there was no glory that day, for Kyne had never before felt love for one she had slain.  Kyne, Lady of Storms, fell to her knees and wept.  Her grief was so great that her tears washed the battlefield clean of the blood of man and elf.  Kyne held her fallen kin, and threw down her spear.  Kyne held her fallen kin, and at last her great fury was tempered.  She swore to herself and to all who could hear that from that day and for every day since, she would take upon herself the duties of her brother; she would care for the trees, the vines, for all that grows.  To honour her fallen kin, she would forever be Kyneryth,  for she took upon it upon herself to love and care for all of her brother’s creations.  Jryth’s spirit passed into the land, and where his blood fell a great forest grew.  It is said that the storm-mother still walks there sometimes, deep in the forest, where her fallen brother still whispers.
