---
title: "Stairway to Heaven: Skuldafn and Nahkriin"
reddit: 2natf1
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-11-24T21:01:22Z
---

Imperial Scholar Lucius Flavius

Finally after all of our exploring we had collected seven out the eight known dragon priests that ruled over Skyrim during the Merethic Era. Yet there was one that still eluded us. We searched high and low for any reference to dragon priests. We found tales of lesser priests but not the one we were looking for. After nearly a month of fruitless searching my fellow scholars and I were about ready to give up on the hunt. It was then that I received another letter from our mysterious adventuring friend asking me to meet in the Bannered Mare in Whiterun, saying that they had something to complete my collection. After arriving in the city I sought out the inn and our friend sitting in the corner, hood covering his face. I sat down opposite of them and they said they would fill me in on everything, about the temple of Skuldafn, where it is located and its purpose. I shall record all the information learned here.

Skuldafn is an ancient fane high in the Velothi Mountains in the hold of Eastmarch. Inaccessible by foot, it is said to only be able to be reached by the dragons. (Note: Scholars of the Dwarves have noted sources that speak of a passageway connecting the ruins of Mzulft and Skuldafn, but as of late, no evidence has been found to support this.) When I pressed the adventurer on how they were able to access the ruin, they played quite coy and said I must not pay attention to current events. They said that the temple itself was a massive complex, being built upon a foundation of epic proportions. Multiple stairways lead up the flanks of the ruin and then straight up the middle towards the entrance. There were several outlying areas such as two towers and overlooked the temple. Also apparently the ruin was defended heavily by powerful drgur lords, something in this temple was worth protecting and defending to these undead hordes. Something that the adventurer told me sounded nearly impossible, but I have seen much and soon believed it, multiple dragons also guarded the temple itself. I asked what they were defending, but that part would be saved for last. 

Upon entering this massive temple it was laid out mostly in a straightforward way, usually two dual passageways running parallel to one another entering into larger chambers with side passages always returning to the main thoroughfare. I was told that there were several puzzle traps that had to be solved before moving forward. Usually when entering a chamber, one would face draugr from higher levels which required one to move quickly through the lower levels. Finally after moving forward through a long tunnel passage one would come to a another Nordic puzzle door. The adventurer said that the key to this door was being carried on the person of a lesser dragon priest, who must have been tasked with solely guarding the door itself. The claw was wrought out of pure diamond and the combination to the door was carried upon it. Fox, moth and finally a dragon. When the door lowered in the next room was a black word wall. The adventurer then produced a piece of parchment with scribblings of the words upon the wall. I was extremely grateful for this, as I greatly rued not being able to explore the location myself. Now I have translated the words and they are as follows:

(This) stone commemorates (the) villagers of doomed Vundeheim, burned alive by (the) Lightning of Unending Sorrow. 

I would very much like to learn what this lighting of unending sorrow is, perhaps it is merely Nordic hyperbole, but it is intriguing all the same. Now exiting Skuldafn’s temple and rounding round a corner lead to the main staircase of the ruin. What lies at the top of this temple has only ever been spoken of in myth, half believed by the Nords themselves and thoroughly questioned by the few scholars who have learned of it. What lies at the top of Skuldafn is a literal portal to Sovngarde, the Nordic afterlife. Surely all Nords know of Sovngarde and of its pleasures tasted by those who have fallen in honorable battle. Indeed it is seen as a paradise to those who have fought in the name of Shor. Akin to this legend is one that hangs like a spectre over it. Alduin, the head of the Dragon Cult in Skyrim during mythic times and the World Eater of ancient Nordic myth would supposedly travel to Sovngarde and devour the souls of the dead. Had anyone else told me of such a transport to Aetherius, I would have not believed, but I had come to trust this adventurer. They said that the portal was not without a guardian, and to my questioning gaze produced a small bundle of cloth. Nahkriin. A dragon priest who guarded the portal to Sovngarde. The final priest we had been searching for. 

Unwrapping the small bundle revealed a mask that was black as night. It was crafted of ebony and its enchantment glowed like fire upon it. The mask could enhance to dangerous levels one’s natural talent with the spells of destruction and restoration. “Nahkriin”, as I translate it, means “Vengeance” in the dragon tongue. After only holding this mask I can assure you that its is aptly named. This priest must have been either exemplary in his service to the dragons or was loyal to a fault. Guarding the very portal to Sovngarde, solely used by Alduin, must mean that Nahkriin was one of the most trusted or obedient priests in Skyrim. No doubt that it was an honor to him to guard such a place. He must have also ruled over Skuldafn itself as the leading priest. The adventurer told me that the temple itself had few burial chambers, but was clearly a place, maybe even the epicenter of dragon worship. I doubt that just any Cultist would be allowed in this place and only the most devout and loyal would be allowed to worship and serve so close to a portal to Sovngarde. 

As soon as my adventuring friend had finished his tale he stood up and left the inn, but not before telling me to keep the masks safe, we were not the only ones interested in them. My expedition now had all of the masks of the inner circle of dragon priests. My attention now turns to the Bromjunaar Sanctuary that we found and a revelation we have had of the place. 
