---
title: "The Second Words of Oztrakos"
reddit: 2nlb35
author: myrrlyn
date: 2014-11-27T17:13:33Z
---

# DIGGING TO THE CAVE

The clans moved into the Mountain, digging beneath its skin and carving out
homes and warrens in the rock.

Some of them were afraid of the dark, and lept out of the Mountain so quickly
that they tore new holes in it which let in the light, but were not enough that
the inside burned like the plain outside. They could never find the ways in
again and the holes they tore were too small to fit through the other way, so
now they wander the bright face of the Mountain with skins dark and burned
against its heat.

Some more were afraid of the work and of wasting away, so they held back, but
the diggers were furious and closed off tunnels behind them, so the lazy ones
could not follow. The shirkers became furious at this, and set up their own
camps in the empty halls near the skin of the Mountain, where they fought each
other as often as they fought the rubble barring the tunnels going further in.

Finally, the diggers came across a great cavern, with springs of water and
mushrooms and shells and glowing crystals and rich metal veins, and they agreed
that they had found their new home. And the two clans met in numbers for the
first time, and held a great feast to celebrate their union and their new-found
home in the cavern. But while they were feasting, there was a great Earthquake,
and all the large tunnels suddenly collapsed, leaving only scattered holes
letting in light from the outside.

One clan was angry, for they felt trapped and betrayed by the digging, and had
wanted to be able to go back to the surface and the plain of night and day and
twilight where they were free to roam, and blamed the earthquake on the other
clan, who had suggested living in the Mountain. The other clan barely took
notice, for they had never wanted to go back to wandering in circles balanced
between two opposite destructions. And the chief of the trapped ones argued with
the chief of the settled ones, and they both became so furious with the other
for being stubborn stupid that they started fighting, and then their clans went
to war as well.
