---
title: "Tsaesci Sacrificial Culture"
reddit: 2o4qe3
author: Anonymous_Mononymous
date: 2014-12-03T06:16:00Z
---

In Tamriel, wars have traditionally always been waged to capture land from an enemy. In Akavir, this practice is wholly unheard of. War is waged by the Tsaesci for a single purpose: to gather captives to be brought back to the capital. On their arrival, the captives are sold into slavery or dragged up the temple steps to be sacrificed for propaganda and, with high profile or religious sacrifices, ritual cannibalism. The Tsaesci sacrificial practices are primarily why Tamrielics have labeled their society as "vampiric." In truth, if the observations of second era writers are to be believed, the Tsaesci race possesses neither the strengths nor the weaknesses traditionally associated with vampires. Nor does their faith system hold any reverence for Molag Bal, father of vampires.

The fighting style of the snake-men revolves totally around disarming and overwhelming opponents. It is for this reason that the other three races of Akavir have developed such incredible unarmed techniques. Although small campaigns to collect sacrifices are more or less continuous on the outskirts of Tsaesci territory, large masses of troops are always mustered in the capital every twelfth calendar cycle to strike out in force and capture notable heroes of the Tang Mo or the Ka Po’ Tun. One source goes so far as to suggest that Tang Mo soldiers measure their age by how many Tsaesci invasions they’ve survived.

This ancient war of subjugation between the Tsaesci and the Tang Mo in some way mirrors the ancestral struggles between the Dunmer and the inhabitants of Argonia. Tang Mo captives escorted by Tsaesci raiders receive very similar treatment that Argonian captives received when escorted by Dres raiders. If the Tsaesci warrior allows his charge to die before the priests can offer his heart to [CENSORED], misfortunes will plague the expedition until all grievances have been atoned for in the capital. The Dres similarly had a code for preserving strong slaves, and a social disgrace for warriors who allowed too many valuable captives to perish.

Many scholars argue over the fate of the Men of Akavir. They were eaten, but were they eaten culturally or literally? The real story lies somewhere in the middle. After centuries of watching their greatest heroes and their families executed and eaten, the survivors capitulated and became incorporated into the Tsaesci empire as slaves. However, it should be noted that just as the Tamrielic concept of war differs slightly from the Akaviri one, so too are the slave castes similar but different. In Morrowind, slavery meant that you were the property of your master, who could do as he pleased with you. Slaves had virtually zero rights. In Tsaesci lands, slaves exist in separate communities within the empire. They enjoy a much greater freedom of movement and activity. They also have very basic rights in terms of property, religion, and self-governance. 
