---
title: "Eternal Watch Against the Woodland Man: Vahlok’s Tomb and Vahlok the Jailor"
reddit: 2oeod9
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-12-05T22:41:47Z
---

Imperial Scholar Lucius Flavius

Driven now to fully uncover the secret of the priests of Solstheim, I once again returned to the Skaal Village to find any references to Hermaeus Mora and the Dragon Cult. When I questioned them about Mora, I could see the change in their attitude; clearly I was straying into dangerous territory. Yet they were still willing to help me, and spoke of a tomb to the south that had recently been explored by another scholar who had stayed with the Skaal. Apparently a dragon priest had been found in the tomb, but I could not question the scholar who had explored it. He had returned to the mainland by this time but I was anxious to explore the location myself. I would be going alone, my fellow scholars believed that we were entering into a dark and evil secret of the island and that we shouldn’t continue this pursuit. I however could not be dissuaded and set off for the tomb immediately. 

The tomb appeared to have been buried by the eruption of Red Mountain and a recent shift in the land had uncovered it once again. The entrance was quite unadorn, a simple track that descended into the ground that lead to a single set of doors. After a decent down a tunnel a turn brought me into a chamber of massive size. In front of me a fire pit in the ground, what appeared to be two divergent paths and a middle track. Now all of this had been opened prior to my visit, but I didn’t want to miss any clues as to the nature of this location and decided to explore all the passageways. The pedestal overlooking the this fire pit read “A sacrifice will bring you closer to that which you seek.” It appears that dropping a body into the pit would force the paths to yield and open. I decided on following the southern path first and it lead me into a burial chamber, the all too familiar niches for the dead lining the wall. Whoever this priest was that built this tomb followed the standard practices the priests on the mainland had, and this would prove revealing. Past this was another test one had to complete in order to proceed. The pedestal in this room read “All men must die, often by their own means.” In the middle stood three impact stones that needed to be touched by blade, spell and arrow. The gate was already open and connected to yet another burial chamber, but I was surprised by another site, a word wall. 

Now normally I would offer the translations immediately, but due to other finds in other parts of the tomb, I will group those together. A side entrance lead back to the main entrance chamber, and I went straight for the northern passage. I came to yet another room that contained a test. I use test because this tomb’s puzzles seemed different from all the other barrows I have explored. While the other tomb’s traps seemed aimed at warding off any and all intruders, this one seemed to be keeping out only those who were unable to figure out the puzzles. Almost inviting those who were worthy to enter. The riddle in this room read, “Continue along the path, don't tread where you've been.” Tiles on the floor indicated where to tread, I assume one needed to step on them all before a set amount of time to open the gates. This was connected to yet another room with a word wall, I questioned as to why there was more than one word wall in this tomb, every other only contained one. The answer lie deeper within. 

The last riddle was inside an enclosed gate, and what lay ahead was stunning. “Stay your course. To idle is to die.” Ahead of me was a bridge, but not one constructed of stone or wood, but of pure magic. I’ll admit I tried to run my hand through the barrier to see if it was just a projection or if it would support my weight. Mercifully it held but I did sprint across, fearing that the magic would dissipate at any moment. There were several more of these magical bridges going forward, and because of my fear I’m afraid I didn’t see much except a long drop into water and abominations that put the fear of the gods in me. Eventually this lead me to the Hall of Stories, bas reliefs of different animal totems lining the wall, I noticed the last ones were of the dragons and in the middle a carving of a dragon priest, bolstering my feeling that a priest was indeed buried here. The door ahead had already been lowered, and a staircase lead up towards the final burial chamber. 

Inside was one of the most unique rooms I had ever seen in a Nordic barrow. The entire room was longer than it was wide, a short stairway lead down into the middle of the floor where there was standing water, and all along the floor were pressure plates that threatened to incinerate whoever took a wrong step. Towards the back there was the familiar site of a great stone sarcophagus in front of the last word wall in here. In front of the coffin laid what I was seeking but at first I thought something had been taken. I found no mask on the remains of the priest and I feared I may miss out on a crucial clue. (Note: I have since been in contact with the scholar who previously explored the tomb and he said that there was no mask to be found on the priest.) I have translated the name of this priest from an inscription elsewhere in the tomb, “Vahlok the Jailor” was what I found. “Vahlok” means “Guardian” in the common tongue. I sit here now and wonder why this priest had no mask with him, and yet must have been of some import to be buried in such a way. I had to dig for more clues in old Skaal lore, and the truth struck me like thunderbolt. 

[Skaal legend](http://uesp.net/wiki/Dragonborn:The_Guardian_and_the_Traitor) tells of a time when the Dragon Cult ruled over Solstheim, and the dragon priest ruled as kings over the people. A priest who is known as the “Traitor” to history now was seduced by “Herma-Mora” the ancient Nordic name for Hermaeus Mora. He plotted against his dragon masters and the other priests with Mora to some unknown end. A contemporary of the Traitor known as the “Guardian” discovered this plot and the two fought an epic battle to the death. Some shamen who tell this story will tell you it was during this battle that Solstheim was split from the rest of Skyrim, but I have figured this to be classic Nordic hyperbole, possibly to communicate the savageness of the battle. Of note is the fact that the tale says that both priests battled using the thu’um, or Voice. I have not found any other evidence to confirm that any other priests could use the thu’um as well, but it is not outside the realm of possibility. Perhaps several of the priests I have already studied could also use this ability, it could explain some of their impressive or horrific deeds. The tale tells that the Guardian finally gained the upper hand and was ready to deliver the killing blow, Mora intervene and spirited the Traitor away. The tale has obviously been modified over the years to tell a greater tale of the struggle between good and evil, but in legend there is truth and I have found my truth.

Volak the Jailor is the Guardian of  legend. Everything in his tomb points to that inescapable fact. However more questions arise in the corners of my mind. Who was the Traitor he fought, and why do the Skaal seem to remember this tale best of all? While the origins of the Skaal and their radically different belief system have been disputed over the years but I may have come to a tentative explanation. The tale  says that Volak is made to be the ruler of Solstheim after his victory. I believe that the predecessors of the Skaal were worshipers of the Dragon Cult while it ruled in the Merethic Era. Volak could have possibly been the patron of a particular tribe of men that eventually became the Skaal. With the end of the Dragon War and worship of the dragons was all but abandoned by the Nords (One will recall the tales of Alessian priests finding difficulty converting the Nords due to Akatosh’s representation as a dragon) The Skaal, given their distance from the mainland of Tamriel and lack of contact with even groups on Solstheim could explain their belief in the All-Maker. While there is little evidence I put forth the theory that over time, the worship of Alduin the World-Eater morphed after the Dragon War into the figure of the All-Maker. It seems reasonable that after such a catastrophic war, and the following social upheaval of nearly an entire race abandoning a religion would seek something promoted and promised the opposite of destruction and ruin. Perhaps the Skaal remember the tale of Vahlok so well because he had ruled over their ancestors and defended them, their values, and way of life so fervently. 

The dragons apparently rewarded Vahlok richly for his efforts, as stated he was made the new ruler of Solstheim. However they also made it his sworn duty in life and death to remain vigilant, lest Mora and the Traitor return. His title “The Jailor” at first made me think that he had apprehended the Traitor and held him for a time, but perhaps it simply means that he was to guard the island against his return. His tomb is reflective of his devotion to the Dragon Cult, he must have took many of his followers to the grave with him, as the custom appears to have been during the time. The word walls also offer insight into the aftermath of his battle. 

*Here lies the Guardian who Gained much glory. For His eternal loyalty, he joined (the) dead with great honor.*

*(This) stone commemorates (the) valor of the Guardian, noble servant of (the) Dragons, Whose fate (it) was to vanquish Treacherous Miraak*

*Noble Nord, forever Remember mighty Guardian whose great courage inspired both men and dragon*

I have learned something more about these word walls that was hidden from me in my earlier studies. There are a reason that certain word stood out even to me. If one was gifted enough, they could learn words of power from these, to be used as a Shout. Of course one would need to master the Voice, thu’um to do this but the words in Vahlok’s tomb are of special significance to even the layperson. Loyal, Valor, Inspire are the words that stand out. I believe that the dragons crafted this shout to honor Vahlok and his deeds, I know not what power this shout would have, but it is clear from the last inscription that even the dragons were galvanized by his actions. 

It is in the second inscription that things become clouded to me. Treacherous Miraak. I have heard this name before, it was upon the word wall in Bloodskal Barrow, the tomb of Zahkriisos. The translation from that tomb exemplified Miraak, honored him, yet here in Vahlok’s tomb it implicates that Miraak may have been the Traitor from the legend. What does this tell me? Did all the dragon priests save Vahlok follow Miraak, and thereby Hermaeus Mora? Perhaps Zahkriisos was swayed by Miraak to follow him as a guide. Dukaan may have been dishonored for defecting from the Dragon Cult in favor of following this rouge priest. And Ahzidal must have sought out Miraak after he turned to Mora for the forbidden knowledge he lusted for. Vahlok must have discovered Miraak and his schemes, leading to their battle. I am so close now, the answers seem just beyond my grasp but I must know the truth. Who is Miraak?...
