---
title: "On Lycanthropy: Part Three - Werecrocodiles"
reddit: 2omj22
author: imacoda
date: 2014-12-08T06:49:12Z
---

&gt; [**Part One**](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2jz37s/on_lycanthropy_part_one_introduction/)

&gt;[**Part Two**](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2lucrv/on_lycanthropy_part_two_werebear/)

&gt;---

First of all, sorry there's been such a huge gap between these posts. I don't know how many of you are particularly looking forward to these, but regardless, I will be posting more. Hopefully quicker. I'm a college student so things have been pretty hectic. Now, to the reason you clicked on this....

&gt;---

**The Werecrocodile**

Werecrocodiles are found primarily Black Marsh and Southern Morrowind, but can occasionally be found in Southeast Cyrodiil. They are one of the stealthiest werebeasts in Tamriel. In fact, they are practically invisible when they want to be. Werecrocodiles can switch between walking on four or two limbs effortlessly. They are bipedal for combat, but stay low to the ground on four limbs to hide. 

Werecrocodiles are particularly unusual because they will rarely actively seek out prey. Instead, they lurk in the swamps and wait for prey to go within a few meters of them so they can sink their massive teeth in to the target before they know what hit them. They are equally comfortable in water as on land. They are generally slow, but can move extremely quickly in short bursts. 

Unlike crocodiles, werecrocodiles are amphibious but do not breathe through their skin. Their skin is far too thick and armoured for that to work. Instead, they have small gills that open when breathing under water. These gills will shut they breathe on land and are just as armored as the rest of the body. It only serves as a weak point if it is under water. However, this weakness is made up for by them being very comfortable in water. 

Werecrocodiles will stay in decent sized groups ranging between 10-30 lycanthropes. Both smaller and larger ones exist, but the average group will be within that range. 

**TL;DR: Crikey**

&gt;---

**Beast Form**

Werecrocodiles are one of the most dangerous werebeasts there are. Their jaw is absurdly strong, able to produce enough pressure cut someone in half. They look somewhat like a [crocodile daedra](http://fc03.deviantart.net/fs70/f/2011/150/d/b/oblivion_daedroth_by_jd1680a-d3hm42u.jpg), but with a much longer body, wider shoulders, longer neck, and no spikes on the back. Their claws are fairly human-like but are big enough to wrap around someone's head and crush it. Like I stated before, werecrocodiles are almost invisible when hiding. And if there are a group of werecrocodiles hiding in the marshes, you won't know it until you're being grabbed and either cut in half or being rolled. A werecrocodile's death roll is one of the most dangerous situations you can be in. The force of its jaw wrapped around your body is strong enough that almost nothing can force it open. Even without that, the roll is enough to tear you apart. If the werecrocodile got ahold of one of your limbs, it doesn't matter what kind of armour you have. That limb is coming off. If it grabbed your torso, the roll is enough to break your limbs as they fly around from the force of the roll. If the werecrocodile is against a particularly strong opponent that it can't just kill right then and there, it can always clamp down on it, and then bring it under water. Because the werecrocodile is so strong it can hold just about anything under water without it being in danger of any kind. 

**TL;DR: Never go near one of them. As long as you're nowhere near it, you're good. Otherwise you're screwed**

&gt;---

**Normal Form**

Werecrocodiles in their normal form develop a very thick skin. Some develop actual scales (if they didn't have them already). Their teeth become longer, stronger and pointier. They don't become particularly aggressive, but when they fight, they fight hard and fast. It's over before you know it. They also tend to become more adept at hiding, making them quite powerful even without being in their beast form. Their muscles become much stronger too. Strong enough that one could punch through a table if they wanted to. 

**TL;DR Scaly people with teeth**
&gt;---
