---
title: "A Shortened Flippers C0DA. Part 2: Kids (Chapter 1: Blue Mer from Red Moon)"
reddit: 2omz01
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2014-12-08T11:19:22Z
---

"Maybe I just looked easy, or maybe it's cause I'm a Dunmer, but I was just walking along when I see this dude running towards me. I figured he stole something or whatever, I didn't really care, but he wasn't carrying much. Anyway this little brown guy is running and running he takes a full swipe at me, right here at my neck. I'm knocked back of course, but I turn back and look at him. He thinks he's offed me but then he looks at his claws and he is screaming; blood flying out of these things."

"Then I see him down there freaking out, I go full ayem in this deep voice and go 'Hey jackass... You see these things here? Metal plates.' then I step in closer and he's shaking and going 'I'm sorry! Sorry! Sorry!' so then I tell him 'listen here you little s'wit, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna rip your tongue down to your backward knees and then I'm gonna rip one eye out so you can still see who did it, by then you wont worry about your fingers.' Smack him in the face and I say '**I am Halir Redoran. And your life is under my will only**' and he runs so fast sparks fly off his rubber shoes, I've never seen anything run so fast ahaHaHAA!"

"So that was my first day on Secunda - eh, Jone - in 5E 722 on the... uh, which month are we in now? Idunno, doesn'tmatter - and it wasn't a very nice welcome to be honest. Didn't even give me a candle or anything."

"Well that's me done" Halir says "So what's your story here? You and the big old guy know each other?"
