---
title: "Dracochrysalis, the Prolix Tower, and Nymic Surgery"
reddit: 2pep08
author: MareloRyan
date: 2014-12-15T23:02:25Z
---

Okay, I've been stewing about this one for a while, trying to nail it down into a shape I like, that fits neatly into my [Model of the Godhead](/r/GodheadModel).  And I think I've pretty much got it!  Bear in mind, though, that these topics are among the least well-understood in TES lore, so a lot of this is me just interpreting what we have in ways that please me.  That said, here we go.

---

**Dracochrysalis**

Dracochrysalis itself is pretty straightforward.  Chrysalis implies transformation, and draco- implies dragon.  Dracochrysalis is thus the transformation of the self into a dragon.

Where this goes oddly is that "dragons" are not as straightforward as you might think.  Dragons are, according to [MK and Kuhlman](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2bhz18/lets_talk_about_the_five_hundred_mighty/cj6xj6e), "biological time machines powered by ideologies."  Couple this with the existence of Dragonborn and the apparent dracochrysalis of the [500 Companions](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/five-hundred-mighty-companions-or-thereabouts-ysgramor-returned) and it's hard to commit to the idea that dragons are *all* giant winged beasts.  I certainly don't hold that to be the case, and I think even those dragons that are giant winged beasts take that shape by choice and tradition and familiarity.

What can dragons do, then?  What sets a dragon apart from other spirits?  I think all dragons are spirits of Time in particular, and they all have the *potential* to realize immortality of the kind depicted in *Skyrim*:  They can't be killed permanently unless they're eaten by another dragon.  In addition, they clearly have an affinity for Tonal Architecture, what with their easy use of Thu'um.  I would wager that this is tied to their Time-centric existences.  They are especially attuned to the Music.  In other words, they can keep a beat pretty damn well.

That's not a bad package, to be honest.  A form of immortality and easier access to an extremely powerful form of magic?  That could reasonably be called apotheosis, I think, though a minor form.  It certainly is a good first step to more potent forms of godhood.

Here is where I'll mention that, compared to most people in the lore community, I have a very [different](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2m8if1/the_aedric_nature_of_the_dov/cm2bwmb) [view](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2lgxjw/a_few_questions_regarding_akatosh_dovahkiin_and/cluoxrr) on the origin of dragons:

&gt;&gt; We know dragons to be subgradient to Akatosh (or in the special case of Alduin, possibly Aka-Tusk or BORMAHU).
&gt; 
&gt; Do we?  It's a popular view, but not the only one available.
&gt; 
&gt; I am of the view that there are many more spirits of Time than Aka, and that some of them are the dragons we see.  So far as I can tell, this view is consistent with every bit of evidence we have about where they come from and what they are.  Notably, it would mean they are no more Aedric than mortals or Daedra are.

&gt; ---

&gt; There's room for dissension here, though. It's just as easy to imagine that there were many, many spirits of Time besides Aka, that Aka was merely the most powerful and prominent of them. Some of them got trapped on Mundus along with the Ehlnofey, and over time became what we see as dragons (though these are far from the only forms that dragons can take). The same reasoning can apply to any of the Aedra: They aren't the only spirits of their Tone.
&gt; 
&gt; In this view, Alduin is still part of the Aka oversoul (specifically the End), but dragons and Dragonborn are separate entities. Same family (spirits of Time) but not the same souls. Akatosh (Present, Everlasting Duration, Endurance) just makes some mortals into dragons in order to combat the dragons that serve Alduin (End, Hunger, Dominance), as well as Alduin himself.
&gt; 
&gt; And just to clarify the relationship between Alduin and Akatosh, neither created the other. They're parts of the oversoul of Aka, which is Time. As I mentioned above, Akatosh is the Present, whereas Alduin is the End. They're at odds because they have different desires. You should regard them as separate entities which have the same source, aspects which are at odds (whereas, if you were to buy my multiple-Time-spirit theory, regular dragons and Dragonborn are separate entities which don't share a source beyond the one that everything shares).

Now, as far as I can tell, there are multiple ways to achieve dracochrysalis, two of which are particularly prominent examples.

**The Prolix Tower**

The haziest of the Walking Ways!  I've spoken before about what I think the Prolix Tower is, and I'll quote myself now for convenience:

&gt;&gt; The lines of Moon Axle were collected by Velothi philosophers and taken into caves. There, and for a year, Vivec taught the philosophers how to turn the lines of his son into the spokes of mystery wheels. This was the birth of the first Whirling School. Before, there had only been the surface thought of fire.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Vivec looked at his first wheeling students and observed:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 'Alike the egg-layered universe is this morbid possession of three-distant coverage, soul-wrecked and alive, like my name is alive. In this cloister you have discovered one walking path, hilled like a sword but more coarsened. So edged it is that it has to be whispered to keep the tongue from bleeding, where its signs evacuate their former meanings, like empires that tarry too long.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; ---
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; You in the Fourth Era have already witnessed many of the attempts at reaching the final subgradient of all AE, that state that exists beyond mortal death. The Numidium. The Endeavor. The Prolix Tower. CHIM. The Enantiomorph. The Scarab that Transforms into the New Man.
&gt; 
&gt; This is likely the first, which, through process of elimination with the rest of this comment, leaves the Prolix Tower as the most likely candidate.  Note that some of the items in Jubal's list appear to be names for the same thing:  CHIM, the Scarab, possibly the Endeavor (if Jubal means Lorkhan's Endeavor and not the Psijics').  But what exactly the Prolix Tower is, whether it's the first Walking Way or an alternate name for another, and why Jubal's list is so funky are all kind of mysterious at this point.  My personal view is that it involves the manipulation of mythopoeia to make an Aedric aspect transform one's soul into one that is immortal; dracochrysalis would be the most common and easily accomplished variety of this.

My interpretation is pretty straightforward, really.  The name "Prolix Tower" seems a good fit:  "Tower" because most mythopoeia effects are accomplished through the various Towers; "Prolix" because the shaping of these Towers is a long, tedious process of stories told over and over again, beliefs held through generations, etc.

Auriel is a curious case, however.  He is said to have climbed Adamantia to ascend to Aetherius, which many people understand as the Prolix Tower in action.  But he's an Aedric aspect, right?  How did he manipulate mythopoeia if mythopoeia is what shapes Aedric aspects in the first place?  And how did an Aedra leave Mundus?

Simply put, I don't think Auriel took the Prolix Tower at all.  I think Auriel only escaped because the Aldmer seriously wanted him to escape.  Now, the Eight can't escape, but Auriel is *not* one of the Eight.  Auriel is an aspect of Aka, a spirit called up by mythopoeia in the visage of Aka, pulling on the strings of Aka's power.  So basically, the Aldmer made a spirit that hated Mundus and then said, "Go, get outta here, it sucks here!" and that's what happened.  Aka didn't leave; Auriel, a shadow-fragment of Aka, was what left.

Altmeri doctrine holds that they are descended from the Aedra, but this is simply not true, and mythopoeia can't make it true.  The Ehlnofey have their origins in a time and place before mythopoeia was even a thing, after all:

&gt; [The only survivors of the twelve worlds of Creation were the Ehlnofey and the Hist.](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Annotated_Anuad)

So, with all of that in mind, it's pretty easy to see how dracochrysalis and the Prolix Tower can interact.  Aka is known to have the capacity to make people Dragonborn, so manipulating mythopoeia to get Aka to do so would be dracochrysalis via Prolix Tower.  (I hold that mythopoeia is [the reason](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1xj0l1/why_is_the_player_the_last_dragonborn/cfc6f44) the [majority of Dragonborn](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/23safo/nordic_dovahkiin_cyrodillic_dragonborn_one_and/ch03irr) are blessed in the first place, though I wouldn't call that the Prolix Tower because usually it's not the future Dragonborn themselves that are trying to do it.)

The easiest example of dracochrysalis via Prolix Tower would be the 500 Companions.  As seen in the text linked above, toward the end of the list we start getting repeats, except they're described as dragons this time around.  I believe this reflects that, through force of deed, they became considered such timeless figures in Nordic culture that Aka just up and agreed, and made them timeless, eternal, transforming them into dragons.  There's room for timey-wimey nonsense, too:  Peering into possible futures, Aka might be able to know about these tales and songs before they're ever told or sung, and change them in the present to solidify that timelessness.  (This transformation is discussed in all of its weird implications and possible interpretations in [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2bhz18/lets_talk_about_the_five_hundred_mighty/).)

Another good example might be Reman, who has [this encounter with Akatosh](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/fireside-chats):

&gt; Then the Dragon of Heaven appeared, encircling them, King of Time, eating his lower length in symbol, speaking in the manner of the aether, which is mostly dream, "This I do command, for Reman was conceived of the imperial earth, and by his sacred measure he shall be as it should be: of an immortal fire that binds heaven to the mundane, Light made Man, and Order, fed ever by the seed of first stasis, anon Anu. And his wives will share forever in the blessing of Beauty if this should be so, their fair aspect frozen eternal, youth-radiant unto the ending of days. Aad semblio aurbex, aad semblio ae ehlnokhan, ae na-sen-ae-mantella, dracochrysalisanu."

&gt; ---

&gt; So now it’s Akatosh actually saying [about Reman] “no, for real, I'm going to make this motherfucker the king of the world and completely immortal.”

Akatosh there uses the word dracochrysalis specifically about making Reman immortal, so I think that's pretty solid.

Notably, there are other ways to take the Prolix Tower aside from dracochrysalis.  It just so happens that dracochrysalis is probably the easiest one to actually manage.  Aka blesses tons of people with demigodhood throughout history, so he seems like a good one to try to get that blessing from.  The well-beaten path, y'know?

**Nymic Surgery**

Here we have a less well-beaten path.  So far as I'm aware only a handful of people have managed to change their own nymics through direct manipulation, which is another way of describing the application of Tonal Magic to shape the song that is oneself.  And only one has used this process to become a dragon:  Mankar Camoran, who [underwent the Razor](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Mythic_Dawn_Commentaries).  In his own words:

&gt; When my voice returned, it spoke with another tongue. After three nights I could speak fire.

&gt; ...

&gt; Whisper to earth and earth, where the meddlers take no stones except to blood, as blood IS blood, and to the cracking of bone, as bone IS bone, and so to crack and answer and fall before the one and one, I call you Dragon as brother and king.

And, lo and behold, Mankar can wear the Amulet of Kings, something only Dragonborn are supposed to be able to do.

The Razor, as depicted in *Oblivion*, appears to be a process in which you subject yourself to repeated destruction and resurrection, cutting yourself into new shapes by leaving behind what does not survive and growing into something that does, something that transcends the agony.  Essentially, you carve new natures into your own nymics and slough away mortality and weakness.  Through this process, Camoran achieved dracochrysalis.

As for those who have undergone nymic surgery but not dracochrysalis specifically, I would include Mannimarco for sure, and maybe Talos, both of whom had access to and control over Numidium.  More on Mannimarco [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2a9c0p/lets_revisit_the_definition_of_mantling_eh/) and [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2a9c0p/lets_revisit_the_definition_of_mantling_eh/cit2d6s).

**So!**

That's about it.  Dracochrysalis is becoming a dragon, the Prolix Tower is getting an Aedric aspect to transform you into something immortal, nymic surgery is Tonal manipulation of the self, and the latter two can overlap with the former.

Again, these are mostly just the views I prefer.  I don't consider them particularly well-established takes on these concepts, but they fit in my model, I like 'em, and I thought I might as well share.
