---
title: "[LYG] Tilhammarot: Book One"
reddit: 2pm5y6
author: mojonation1487
date: 2014-12-17T21:23:51Z
---

Having witnessed the divine myths which were composed in the Tilhammarot by Kalanvuyn, and which were recounted at the Bone-sacrifice in the presence of the chief of Chiefs, Tilhan it-Tilhan.

The son of Kalan having, by prostration and meditation, afterwards composed this divine myth, he began to consider how he might distribute and teach his apostles. The beholden of six striding virtues, Anew, the world-egg’s progenitor, knowing the apprehension of Kalanvuyn, came in full aspect, for appeasing his prophet, and benefiting the people. 

And Kalanvuyn having gone to him who is called the Eye, seated on that distinguished throne knelt near it; and being commanded by Anew-who-is-I, he took his place near the seat, full of adoration and exultation. Then Kalanvuyn, addressing Anew, said, “Anew who knows me like none other, an epic hath been drafted which is admired and respected in all the corners of this world, by thy servant, Kalanvuyn it-Kalan. The enigma of the Siva, and other Sivastic subjects have been elucidated by me; the wool-rituals of the Hierophants; the compilation of the myths and history; the determination of the nature of life, death, fear, courage, sadness, joy, existence and nonexistence; the exactitude of the sun and stars; birth of aetherial and mortal; the nature of men and the impregnating spirit; all these have been accounted for. But no writer of this work is to be found on this world.”

Anew said, “I admire thee for thy wisdom and knowledge of Sivastic enigmas. I know thou hast exposed the aetherial doctrine, even from its first wail, in the language of undeniable veracity. Thou hast called thy work an epic, wherefore it shall be an epic. There shall be no epic equal to the elucidations of this epic, even, as the father is unequal in merit to the son.”

Having prostrated before the ur-being Anew, to whom multitudes give praise, and who is cherished; who is the one, I, the perceivable, imperceivable, unending; who is both an extant and nonextant being; who is the Aurbex yet also disparate from the static and chaotic Aurbex; who is the spring from which all on high and below find purchase; the eternal, illustrious, infinite one; who is Ainha, benevolent and benevolence itself, worthy of all praise, pure and flawless; who is Aikha, the guide of all things ambulatory; thus declared within the surface thoughts of fire in accordance to the exalted kahn Til. 

In this Aurbex, when it was vacant of illumination and light, and encircled in total darkness, there came into existence, as the cause to be, a mighty egg, the inexhaustible ovum of all creation. Formed at the beginning of all, in which we are told, was the true light of Anew, the eternal I, the beautiful and incomprehensible being extant in all; the aetherial doctrine, whose quality devours entity and non-entity. From the egg came Ainha, the ego; with Aikha and Tilhan. Then appeared the twenty-three Siva; sixteen Daesiva and eight Aesiva.Then appeared a great conspiracy of inconceivable nature whom all who walk its surface know to be true. Tilhan and Aikha and all the Aesiva, through wise and distinguished discourse, set in succession the heavens, the air, the apices of the aether, the eras, the years, the seasons, the months, with day and night in due course. Thus were effectuated all things which are known to mortals.

What is seen in the Aurbex, whether static or chaotic, will at the end, after the termination of the aeon, be again bewildered. At the genesis of other aeons, all things will be remade, and, like the various leaves of a tree, succeed each other in order of their seasons. Thus continues in eternal perpetuatude, without beginning or end, this wheel which would cause the destruction of all things.

The house of Feyva was three thousand, three hundred and thirty-three. The sons of Trimurtra, in short, were Shalku, Vasha at-Morma, Reka, Mahu, Rasavada and Vadarasa. Of them all, Iff’ryr was the youngest whose daughter was Hirst. Numerous also were the houses built, and copious were the creatures and fauna and their dwellings.

*Next came the anticipation of the Siva War, when the trembling of the skies and the sundering of the land galvanized the arena in which mortals inhabit.*

