---
title: "Voyage into the Waters of Oblivion, Part two, Sailing to the Edge of Nirn, Through Dawn, and Straight to Shor's Ass."
reddit: 2pwli2
author: bnmbnm0
date: 2014-12-20T18:53:20Z
---

**Log of the Speaker, Lady Oratori. Two days from Dawn.**

The Cacophony of Echoes, a beautiful marvel of engineering, the best damn Void Ship ever constructed, it almost puts a Battle Spire to shame. I’ve already constructed four vessels to make sure my theories worked, though this is my first manned voyage. The first ship was just a small rock enchanted with a spell of return, sent into the sky with a levitate spell focused from a circle of mages, it returned all kinds of messed up, it grew blisters and boils, changed from a basic stone to blackened obsidian, glowed and oozed mucus. The second was a small machine, using a Varla stone to power itself, it contained a small image of the Wheel, with Eight Divine amulets surrounding an amulet of Talos, and projected that Mundane Energy outwards to encapsulate the machine, it was sent afloat by attaching a Will-o’-wisp to it and saying mean things to the gaseous beast. It returned unharmed. The third was a piece of Daedric armor, surrounding a small flower, sent afloat my an acrobatic fortification spell and a trampoline, when it returned it appeared to be intact, however upon cracking open the shell the flower had been replaced with a set of female organs, and sprouted phalluses, still looked like a flower, and after much research in the local whorehouse we determined that the organ was that of a Redguard, I would like to do more research to see if the same species always returns genitalia of certain races or it if is random, perhaps I could create pure Falmer or Dwarven children from flowers of their kind. The last probe I launched was a set of amulets, the achieved denirnification via a large ballista, only the Amulet of Talos returned unaltered.

Our Voidship however uses an orrery as well as a Wheel like design; it has many saferooms fitted with their own projectors. Of course the outside of the ship merely looks like a galleon of some esteem. The crew knew little of the danger we are sailing into, though the Orc and Redguard Captains spilled the beans and told them, we’re lucky there wasn’t a mutiny. There would have been if it weren’t for the fact that the crew fears us a little more than they fear the Lesser Void. We are currently west of old Yokuda and about two days journey from the Zero Meridian. We’ll sail before convention and right off into Oblivion that is, if my adding machine holds up, let’s hope sixteenth dimensional math is enough to affect time. Cynric was the one who came up with this plan, he found out about the effects position on time, as well as the effects of math on time. He’s a great explorer but a reckless scholar, we were trying to see if he was correct about complex mathematics affecting time, I prepared an experiment to see if a clock that moves across Tamriel will keep its start time or transition if it is kept aware of by a small adding machine, instead Cynric created a dragon break and used the machine to entrap a Jill, he affixed a small adding machine to its neck and keeps it as a pet. I do not think keeping a shard of Akatosh as a pet is a good idea, but Cynric said that a dumber idea would be to do something about it, he can be an ass sometimes, but he’s also the only one on this ship who isn’t ignorant, military, or old, so I’m stuck talking to him.

Signed, Lady Oratori

**Log of the Speaker, Lady Oratori, Three hours into Oblivion.**

I can’t believe it worked, the ship reached the Meredian and began lifting, tangential to the curve of Nirn, and we will be landing on the great ass of Shezaar, as my father used to say, in about two days, Cynric has already picked out a battering point for the breaching of the barrier, He says we should come out in the Evergloam, lets hope he’s right. The men seem strangely calm given the impending doom we all face, I figure the awe of the moment is making this all seem worthwhile, not to mention the denial, everyone will admit that few, if any will make it back, heck we’ve already lost three to an incident with Cynric’s Jill, and yet everyone is so confident in themselves that they are sure they’ll be one of those that return home, hell they’ll swear up and down that there regiment will survive with no casualties. 

We were never going to land on Masser or Secunda but some people in the Empire would like to know the condition of the colonies there, sadly this ship isn’t capable of landing or taking off, so we will be sending away parties to each moon, while the ship stays in orbit around Masser. Cynric will be leading the Iron Shields to Secunda, where he will attempt to establish a sit. rep. of both Imperial and Khajiiti colonies. Gragag will be leading his men down to Masser to look for other Imperial colonies, I don’t suppose we’ll find much, and in a week we’ll be headed for a small asteroid where we will conduct some info gathering on its origins and hopefully complete a breaking of the Barrier into the Evergloam.

Signed,
Lady Oratori

