---
title: "Killing the Brothers Ienith"
reddit: 2q5d9b
author: The_Silvenar
date: 2014-12-23T05:46:06Z
---

**Journal of Santisk-Na, (former slave, Argonian male)**

11 First Seed

The sun has returned to my sky! The red-eyed dryskin who I was made to call master set me free. His hatchling angered a bety and fell into murky waters. The boy is an egg-sac but never treated me bad. I had to save him. I ran between the elf and the nech, and calmd the beast. So happy was the Pakseech he took off the shackle and sent Santisk-Na with branches shading the path.

When the softskins caught me I wanted only to see my egg-brothers and to swim again down the river to my nest. Now I am free but my heart hurts. My freedom weighs upon me like a second set of scales. Xuth. This clouds the waters. I cannot be free and others be slaves. I will stay in Morrowind and on my mother’s egg-tooth I will free Saxhleel and furskins alike. I swim against a current that is too strong but the Hist watches us all, xhu?

**Journal of Ilmeni Dren, (daughter of Duke Vedam Dren)**

28 Frost Fall 3E427

I received exceedingly distressing news today. I felt it time to deal a blow to my dear Uncle’s pride and free one of his slaves. Santisk-Na, as always, was successful. But when he returned, he informed me that the now former slave Hides-His-Foot had recently delivered a letter to Uncle Orvas’ favorite thugs, the Brothers Ienith. Before handing the letter to the fetchers, Hides-His-Foot memorized its contents. To my horror, Orvas is more of a monster than I could ever have imagined. He actually intends to kill my father. Father has often turned a blind eye to Orvas’ corruption, and I fear that even this evidence would not be enough to bring Orvas to justice. Even if it would, I cannot risk revealing my connection to freeing uncle’s slave.

I may have no choice but to deal with Uncle Orvas discretely. He may be beyond redemption, but he is still family no matter his own wicked and violent intentions. His henchmen, however, are forfeit. I will meet with Eno and discuss the terms of a Writ of execution. With the Ienith brothers dead, Orvas may think twice before murdering his own brother.

**Journal of Dravona Llervu, (Morag Tong Knower, Dunmer female)**

1 Sun’s Dusk 3E427

Tracking down these Mehrunes Dagon cultists has been tedious. After killing that N’Wah Carecalmo, I have found that many of these cultists somehow come into possession of Threads of the Webspinner. This has doubled the importance of tracking down each of these fetchers and ending their miserable lives.

Today was by far the worst dealing with the Dagon cultists yet. I had finally reached the Ghostgate to retrieve that glass dagger cousin Dronos had promised me. While there, I overheard a few Bouyant Armigers talking about daedric ruins beyond the gate. There had been activity spotted there recently. I couldn’t leave it to chance, so I asked whether the Armigers knew what daedra was worshiped in these ruins. Of course, it couldn’t just be a shrine to the Mad God; that would be too lucky for me. The historical records showed that the ruins once contained a shrine to Mehrunes Dagon. With that, I was putting on my helmet and heading up the Red Mountain, Dunmac take my bad luck.

The Bouyant Armigers provided reasonable directions for reaching the ruins, but there was a corprus beast around every stone. The blighted cliff racers were almost an even greater threat. Mephala bless my bow that my arrows were all true.

When I finally reached the ruins of Ularradallaku, I found three s’wits inside, and as expected one was carrying a glove which Grandmaster Hlaalu will be happy to have returned. I will set out for Vivec tomorrow. For now, I am just happy to be back on the right side of the Ghostfence.

**Journal of Kijjan, (Captain of the Thieves Guild, Khajiit female)**

11 Sun’s Dusk 3E427

This one is quite pleased. Gentleman Jim Stacey asked Kijjan to speak with Hrundi in Sadrith Mora, to convince him to stop persecuting the Thieves Guild. Gentleman Jim Stacey said that if this one cannot convince Hrundi directly, Kijjan must find Hrundi's Dunmer lover and threaten to kill her if he does not back down. Kijjan does not like to extend her claws unless I plan to use them, but I am no slowpaws. The Fighters Guild must leave the dungy Camonna Tong and make friends with the Thieves Guild.

Hrundi would not listen to Kijjan, and was rude. I found out that Hrundi spends much time at Fara’s Hole in the Wall. A few drakes to Fara revealed that Hrundi’s short-tail belongs to Falena Hlaren. Hrundi was much nicer to Kijjan when I talked about Falena. He agreed to betray Sjoring Hard-Heart. Gentleman Jim Stacey will feel warm sands when Kijjan tells him the good news.

**Journal of Avernon Delirri, (Hlaalu House Brother, future Nerevarine, Altmer male)**

14 Sun’s Dusk 3E427

Orvas Dren refuses to support my claim as Hortator. I had thought that, given my standing in House Hlaalu, this would be the easiest portion of the Fourth Trial. I do not think I could possibly make a claim for Hortator with either House Redoran or Telvanni if my own House will not recognize me first. Given Orvas’ connections, I do not believe I can remove him without incurring the wrath of both House Hlaalu and the Camonna Tong. But perhaps I can advance my status within Hlaalu enough that he will not have a choice but to approve me as Hortator.

**Journal of Avernon Delirri, (Councilman of House Hlaalu, future Nerevarine, Altmer male)**

5 Morning Star 3E428

Even as Councilman I cannot budge Orvas Dren. The vote must be unanimous or I cannot be called Hortator. I think it’s time I spoke with the more reasonable of the Dren brothers about the title of Grandmaster.

**Journal of Kijjan, (Mastermind of the Thieves Guild, Khajiit female)**

5 Morning Star 3E428

Gentleman Jim Stacey asked his best thief to kill the Camonna Tong's best enforcers, Navil and Ranes Ienith. Kijjan has no love for the Camonna Tong, but I do not love killing people either. This one enjoys taking treasures, not lives. But so long as the brothers live, the Thieves Guild is in danger. Kijjan will take a few days to think. Navil and Ranes are no clawless cowards. They could take Kijjan’s life in the flick of a tail, and then all of Tamriel would mourn the loss of one so pretty. No, caution must be taken if Kijjan wishes to live.

**Journal of Ilmeni Dren, (daughter of Duke Vedam Dren)**

7 Morning Star 3E428

Eno Hlaalu sent me a letter in secret this morning. It seems that my request for a Writ of execution upon Uncle’s monsters has finally been approved. Soon, the Ienith brothers will be an ugly memory and my father will be safer for it.

**Journal of Avernon Delirri, (Councilman of House Hlaalu, future Nerevarine, Altmer male)**

7 Morning Star 3E428

As expected, Orvas Dren was unwilling to relinquish control of the Camonna Tong. I am very nearly ready to end his life. The fool goes on and on about wanting what’s best for Morrowind, but is too blind to see what a major threat Dagoth Ur is to the people of Morrowind. Duke Dren asked that I spare his life if I can. I am certain there must be some way to figure this out. Even if I were take his life in secret, I will still run the serious risk of a death warrant by the Camonna Tong, and that’s the last thing I need on top of everything else. I’ve already got some lunatic sending the Dark Brotherhood after me, and given Orvas Dren’s loathing for all things foreign, I would imagine he’d work with one of the Tong outfits before hiring the Dark Brotherhood.

**Journal of Dravona Llervu, (Morag Tong Knower, Dunmer female)**

8 Morning Star 3E428

Grandmaster Eno Hlaalu gave me a Writ for the honorable execution of Navil Ienith and Ranes Ienith. They may be found on the Dren Plantation which is east of Pelagiad or west of Suran. I have heard of these brothers, and know that I must move swiftly and with precision if I am to honorably execute them. I will attack in the dead of night.

**Journal of Kijjan, (Mastermind of the Thieves Guild, Khajiit female)**

8 Morning Star 3E428

This one is confused and relieved. Much planning had gone into killing the Ienith brothers, but Kijjan is ashamed to admit she was scared. Skooma has helped Kijjan feel invincible in the past, so a little fun was had before I set out for the Dren Plantation. This one now knows the Plantation like her whiskers, but the air felt too still as I approached the prey. It was the smell which told me first that I was too late.

Kijjan opened the door to the Ienith brothers’ room and found two very dead elves. The Moons were high and the Plantation was asleep. No one knew that the enforcers had been murdered. This one saw no reason to waste a chance to take treasures. Rajhin’s luck was with Kijjan when I found a letter worth more than the shiniest diamond. Gentleman Jim Stacey was very happy with Kijjan and has asked that I keep the letter safe until he can think of the best way to use the letter.

15 Morning Star 3E428

Gentleman Jim Stacey has tasked this one with finding a High Elf named Avernon. Avernon can use the letter to hurt the Camonna Tong. Kijjan likes Avernon already.

**Journal of Avernon Delirri, (Councilman of House Hlaalu, future Nerevarine, Altmer male)**

19 Morning Star 3E428

I had just finished speaking with Lucretinaus Olcinius about his invisible son, when out of nowhere comes a Khajiit with a look of glee on her face. At least, I thought it was glee; her teeth were showing and her tail seemed a bit more spastic than you would normally see. Regardless of how happy the Khajiit was, the letter she handed me and her brief explanation certainly left me in a state of glee. I think it’s high time Orvas Dren renounce his role with the Camonna Tong and name me Hortator. But first, I need to help that invisible man.

