---
title: "A Grumpy Nord Blacksmith talks about Moonstone"
reddit: 2q5h1c
author: DuncanTheSilent
date: 2014-12-23T06:29:07Z
---

To Alcaeneth,


I was surprised but pleased to hear from your great-uncle Nyrobin that you’ve shown an interest in taking up smithing as a trade. Too many kids these days are more interested in swinging a sword than making one, and then they have to run crying back to the forge because it never occurred to them that no, your sword is not, in fact, indestructible. It’s a rather indispensable trade for Nords like me, but even we take it for granted at times. It’s a true art worthy even of the Summerset Isles you call home.


You seem to grasp the basics well, which is good, but I was also surprised to hear the claims of your friend. I don’t know how he formed his opinion, but I can tell you now that it’s stupid and wrong. And if your friend wants to object, you tell him that I’m a Nord smith with thirty-five years of experience under my belt, trained by my smithy grandda and after he died, by an Orc forge-wife. I’ve been taught by the best, read up on the best techniques and learned how to smith through good, old-fashioned practice and hard work. I know what I’m talking about. Now, tell your friend, and get this through your head, too: there is no “tier system” of incrementally better armors and weapons. How in the world can you say that Dwarven swords cut better than Orcish swords, but Orcish armor protects better than Dwarven armor? If I stab you with a Dwarven sword, you’ll die just the same as if I stabbed you with an Orcish sword. The only difference is that you’ll curse Kagrenac rather than Malacath as you lie there bleeding out on the ground. Different weapons and armors suit different styles, situations and preferences. There is no “ultimate weapon” that is destined to beat all others. I’ve met Cyrodilic swordsmiths who are convinced that Akaviri katanas are the absolute best weapons on this Akatosh-blessed earth, and I just find them insufferable. The best weapon is the weapon that gets the job done. What’s the job? Well, that’s just it, isn’t it?


Since you asked nicely, I’ll share some of my insights in crafting weapons and armor using more exotic materials with you. I've provided illustrations of the end result, but you’ll have to work out most of it on your own. The best lessons are taught through experience and practice, even if they’re the toughest ones to learn. If that rubs you the wrong way, tough. I’m a Nord and we Nords refuse to believe that you can’t kill a giant with a rusty dagger unless we’ve tried it ourselves. I've just been lucky enough to see others’ mistakes before I made them myself. Pay attention and I’ll save you time, money and a few fingers, too. I won’t waste your time with iron and steel because everyone and their dog knows how to make iron and steel armor. It’s easy and you’re probably already learning how to make it anyway. Just remember: if you actually man up and commit to blacksmithing, you’ll be making a lot of iron and steel weapons and armor. Just remember, you can always improve on your work and make the next blade better than the last. Keep that in mind after you’ve finished making your tenth steel sword for the day and you’re dying to work with something with more character.


Since you’re a High Elf, you’re going to move onto Elven Armor almost as soon as you’re done with steel. Here’s where things are going to get interesting. Moonstone is your main ingredient and you need to cool it with saltwater. Now, if you know anything about moonstone, it’s that purified moonstone is very brittle. If you used fresh water to cool it, your armor would break off in layers like shale. Something about the saltwater cures the metal and makes it hold better.  
Moonstone armor is the lightest armor you’ll ever make out of metal and good Moonstone armor wears like a dream. Your gruncle has told me stories of green Altmer military recruits who kept flinching during sparring practice because they kept forgetting they were actually wearing armor. The Khajiit also use moonstone extensively in their armor, especially due to the cultural transmission of the First Aldmeri Dominion. The extremely light metal suits the Khajiit tendency to favor light, flexible armor. When my Khajiit sellsword friend, To’ja-dar, needs a layer of metal and not cloth or leather for his work, his Khajiiti-style Moonstone armor gives him the protection he wants without slowing him down. Moonstone also insulates well against hostile magic, so it’s a favorite of mages who like to wear armor. The local Sheogorath worshiper also informs me that that a moonstone helmet protects against mind control, but I don’t know about that (and for the record, I never asked for his opinion). Unfortunately, Moonstone can’t really be used for anything but light armor. As for Moonstone weapons, they tend to be lighter than pure iron and steel. Swords and daggers made of Moonstone make for quick and nimble weapons; rapiers made of moonstone tend to be among the best. Moonstone maces and warhammers lack the kind of impact you need in a blunt weapon and are pretty much useless.

