---
title: "Saturalia in Skyrim"
reddit: 2qb5z2
author: The_OP3RaT0R
date: 2014-12-24T20:57:59Z
---

Author's note: **fuck** accidentally hitting 'back' while typing furiously. Anyway, a merry Saturalia to you all!

____

*By Tacitus Axianus*

Saturalia is a holiday of merry-making and gift-giving with its origins in High Rock. Throughout the years, it has spread, reaching as far as the Summerset Isles and Argonia, but I chose to discuss the Nordic adaptation of the holiday. I spent a fair few years travelling Skyrim with a party of adventurers, and in that time I made many great memories - the history and richness of culture were part of what inspired me to take up scholarly pursuits, and those admirable qualities are what make Saturalia in Skyrim a unique and wonderful time.

Culturally, Saturalia was smashed to bits and then rebuilt as a Nordic holiday in its gradual importation to Skyrim. Wanting nothing to do with any Bretonic druidism, the Nords associate Saturalia with their ancient pantheon of gods, particularly Shor, Kyne, and Mara. The holiday also takes on special meaning for the Nords, who consider it a celebration of another year of good provision and of survival even in the harsh northern clime. Naturally, the merry-making remains an integral part of the celebration.

Preparations for Saturalia begin in Skyrim's cities a week before the holiday. Trees are decorated with colored lamps, strings of garland, and other forms of ornamentation that can vary from city to city. Markarth is famous for its crafting of various tree ornaments from Dwemer alloy; as a gesture of good will to the local Nords, one can usually find exquisitely crafted ornaments illuminated with magelight throughout Winterhold; Whiterun often outdoes itself with fine displays of luxury ornaments from every corner of the map that trades through it. Nordic homes often find themselves similarly decorated, commonly bearing so-called Saturalia trees - trees that are harvested to serve as a centerpiece for the exchanging of gifts within families.

The festivities begin Saturalia Eve, when the communal drinking starts in full around noon. This is one day when the the city guards are scarcely needed, as everyone is generally in good cheer. Many songs echo from the barrooms and longhouses of Skyrim, and the drinks flow freely. But the celebration takes on a different air, come Glögg time.

Glögg is a mulled wine that is traditionally had only on Saturalia Eve, made of a recipe of spices, fruits, and wine  is held sacrosanct by Nordic grandmothers across the province. Glögg time comes after sundown, when the stars are out and the aurora dance overhead - while unfortunately this is no longer true, in the past, a Tongue or Tongues would generally ensure a clear sky. The full effect of the celebration is today at the mercy of the weather, though true to their endurance, the Nords will go out in a blizzard if they must. All gather in the central square, where Glögg is distributed, a mass toast is given, and then a handful of ancient Nordic songs are sung. (I can report that one Saturalia Eve in Solitude, I was lucky enough to meet the Dovahkiin, who ensured no clouds or snow interrupted the gathering.)

On Saturalia morning, gifts are exchanged among families, around their Saturalia trees - the Nords like to give handmade and meaningful gifts, and often put weeks of effort into procuring something for every distant relative and acquaintance they know. As the morning goes on, they generally will disperse, giving gifts to those beyond their own homes before picking back up with the communal drinking. Throughout all this, though, is an underlying introspection. On Saturalia, the Nords do not just drink and make merry; they celebrate another year of life, something which I have learned that they have great capacity to relish.
