---
title: "Third Era Politics of Tamriel, Volume 1: High Rock"
reddit: 2qddn6
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-12-25T16:27:52Z
---

Even though High Rock was one of the earliest provinces to accept Septim rule, it was also one of the latest to be effectively ruled by the Empire, mostly due to the fractured political landscape. While many Provinces knew some form of centralised government, High Rock formed an exception, as it was ruled by small nobility (and often greater), organised in various small duchies, princedoms, and kingdoms.

HISTORY

The origin of the fractured political situation within High Rock was rooted in the geography and the history of the Bretons. Small Nedic tries found their way into the rugged and harsh mountain scapes of High Rock, and lived in relative isolation. While it is likely that the tribes were aware of each other, and that there was some sense of cultural unity (or alikeness, at least), there is no evidence, archaeological or historical, that there was any major state-forming in the area at the time.  
This changed when Elven tribes started settling the Illiac Bay region, most notably the Direnni clan. The new arrivals, mostly Elven nobility and higher-ranking citizens, found it easy to subdue or win over the local population. Since the settling Elves were in no way a unified group, the tribal structure of the High Rock Nedes remained largely intact.  
Over the course of centuries, the small tribes started expanding, and some conquered each other or split off from each other. During the same period, the small groups started having more contact with each other, and started trading. With the increase of wealth and contact, the tribes started defining themselves more, giving rise to the states as we know them today. It is interesting to note that these developments took effect much later in areas where there was less Elven influence, like the Reach or the northern coasts.

SITUATION

High Rock was notable in that it lacked any form of centralised government, except for the Imperial representatives. While some provinces knew a figurehead as central political figure (sometimes more symbolic than others), High Rock could be best described as a loose confederation of independent states. Each state was ruled by a noble family, which often trace their lineage back to Elven heroes of the Merethic Era. Officially, each state had to swear fealty and loyalty to the Emperor and Elder Council of the Empire, but in practise, the Empire did not involve itself much in the political swirls and conflicts in High Rock.  
In many ways, the states functioned independent of each other. Each had their own legislation and court, and criminal actions in one state did not result in persecution in others (with the exception of the most severe cases, of course). Still, official paperwork was not required for travel between states, and embassies within other states were rare, and often pointed towards friction between the two states in question.  
On the other hand, due to the sheer difference in size and power between the different states, allegiances were not rare, and often smaller states would be basically ruled by bigger ones. This was often explained by means of arranged and political marriage, which laid emphasis on the strong familial ties within Breton culture (likely a leftover of the initial tribal society). An effect of this, however, was also the big amount of illegitimate children, who were a result of either unjust royal authority, or more genuine romantic relations. In Third Era Breton law, bastards recognised by the noble parent were allowed heritage, and it was not uncommon for them to eventually rule their state, further muddying the familial situation of High Rock.  
Breton politics were noted for being very subtle and ‘hidden’. It was very rare for a noble to say exactly what he meant, or what his plans were, even against his allies. This gave rise to the common to the common Cyrodiilic expression “to talk like a Breton” (not to be confused with “to talk like a Nibenese”), indicating that a person is deliberately unclear.  
Because of this unclearity in conversation, and due to the fickle nature of the small states, most nobles employed spies, who were also trained in assassination and alchemy, if the need arose. These so called ‘night blades’ were a common sight in courts, and formed their own class of citizens. While most were simply employed to gather the exact plans of other nobles, many were also rumoured to serve as assassins to clear out unwanted opposition or distant family that had a claim on the throne, although hard facts have never been found. Indeed, it is nowadays assumed that many supposed convicted night blades were not night blades at all, but were often wrongfully accused to be done away with, often in order to claim their possessions.

CONTEMPORARY DEVELOPMENTS

The end of the Third Era saw major shifts in the political landscape of High Rock. In the final decennia, tensions brew between the major states around the Illiac Bay: Daggerfall, Wayrest (both in High Rock), Sentinal (Hammerfall), and Orsinium (officially within High Rock), with many smaller factions trying to gain some spoils. As well as local powers, the Empire was also involved, who finally tried to push some form of centralisation within the province.  
It is unclear how exactly the tensions ended, but what is known is that the so called “Warp of the West” or “the Miracle of Peace” played a major role. During this event, often cited as taking place in 3E 417, all of the above mentioned parties claimed to have gotten their hands on the Numidium, a giant machine of sorts created by the know gone Dwemer, and using it to conquer many of the small states surrounding the Illiac Bay. According to some accounts, other strange things happened, reminiscent of the Middle Dawn stories. While the exact events are unclear, with many conflicting sources, it is clear that, in the end, the remaining powers swore fealty to the Empire, effectually ending the huge divides within High Rock. The cities remained largely independent, but they did cooperate more with each other, led by the Empire in order to finalise the centralisation of the province. The smaller kingdoms of the northern coasts were left relatively intact by the event, but without any real political leverage within the province, centralisation was not a discussion there.  
With the fall of the Empire following the Oblivion Crisis, the kingdoms of High Rock remained mostly intact. Some borders were quickly expanded in the ensuing chaos, but no major war or conquest was performed. During the Great War, High Rock was spared again, and to this day it is still part of the Empire, yet divided in a handful of states.

