---
title: "Sermon of The Prophet of Landfall"
reddit: 2qf35q
author: Gwynthryn
date: 2014-12-26T04:15:08Z
---

*Adapted from Seeing Through Death', 'A Journey in Consciousness' &amp; 'The Law of Life: Karma' by BARRY LONG. These words are mainly his, i adapted it for TES as it resonates with me for it.*

I want you to come with me into eternity.

The scourge of the Mundus is Time. Like an alien energy, it has captured the Mundus - completely enveloping and devouring it. Out of Mundus is sucks the constant stream of life into itself - into existence - exhausting, poisoning and destroying itself in every form. Life, in every form, cries for mercy from it; in Man and Mer for freedom for it, yet none can resist its irresistible pull to live, and to live again. Here is the mystery of life and existence.

Please close your eyes. Enter the stillness; the eternal void.

If you can find enough Love or awareness in yourself, you will stay conscious and realize as you go deeper you have been here many times before. But if your Love is not sufficient enough to keep you awake, you will go unconscious; and when the journey through death is concluded, you will awake in a world equivalent to the Love and consciousness you are. You will be more at home than ever before in your life.

Either way you go, conscious or unconscious; you will arrive at journey's end. You will see that Love is the most important thing in life, and that the world of the living exists purely for the demonstration of more Love. You will see how far it is from Love, and you will want to tell the whole world what you have discovered... but that won't be possible. You have to discover that, and declare it, and live it, while you live. Everyone must discover the secret of Love for themselves - if not before they die, then after. No one can be taught.

This is the nature of the never-never world of living on borrowed time. Its blatant disregard for the justice of who really owes whom, and who really owes what, creates the vicious injustice or imbalance that never stops growing between the poor and rich, the handicapped and the strong, the starving and the sleek, the deprived and the privileged. So appallingly ill-balanced has it all become that only the end of time itself, **which is now approaching**, can settle the accounts.

We are here for Love. We are here for life. We are here to be cosmically intelligent. When enough of us are cosmically intelligent, we will open the Aurbis to cosmic life and participate in that inconceivable reality. 

I am here to help you.
