---
title: "A Grumpy Nord Blacksmith Talks About Dwemer Metal"
reddit: 2qsjul
author: DuncanTheSilent
date: 2014-12-30T06:32:30Z
---

Dwarven Metal is a Blacksmith’s dream come true. If you want a weapon or set of armor that will last until your grandson’s grandson is moldering in the grave, use Dwarven metal. Those Dwarves had a knack for making all their stuff seem like it was made yesterday and their armaments are no different. Dwarven armor won’t rust, requires next to no upkeep and its bronze-ish finish is always eye-catching. Dwarven weapons are also famously resistant to wear; even with heavy use a Dwarven sword will only need sharpening once or twice a year. And finally, I have it on good report from your great-uncle, who’s quite the enchanter, as you’ve probably heard, that Dwarven metal seems to curiously be more receptive to receiving enchantments than other metals. I don’t know how those Dwarves did it, but It makes imbued magic stronger and longer-lasting. The metal’s not even that difficult to work with, given a little time and practice. For sheer protecting power, sure, it’s not the best, but it’s still better than steel, it lasts forever and it can be enchanted to serve all kinds of additional defensive, magical or practical purposes.  
But there’s a rather huge drawback to it: we can’t make any more of it. We can’t figure out how the Dwarves made this metal; our best metallurgists and Dwarven experts can’t make heads or tails of it and the Dwarves wouldn't tell us how to make it even if we could ask. So we have to melt down Dwarven scrap for it. Scholars call it sacrilege, but I call it practical. It’s not like the Dwarves are using it anymore. Can’t say I miss ‘em, the blasphemers. Oh, and the only way to get more metal is to dive into one of their ruins to get some, and good luck with that, what with their tin soldiers just waiting for an excuse to slice you to pieces. Also be very aware about where and from whom you get your scrap from. Greedy peddlers like to pass off bronze scrap metal as Dwemer Metal and can easily dupe novice smiths who don’t notice the difference. But I’ve personally discovered a trick that makes it easy. Keep a magnet on you: it won’t stick to bronze, but will stick to Dwemer metal. Don’t you dare tell anyone else: it’s one of the few tricks I’ve learned that no one else seems to have picked up on.

