---
title: "Alchemic Codex of Skyrim [201] VOLUME I"
reddit: 2qz5l4
author: MrFahrenheit39
date: 2015-01-01T02:36:04Z
---

This is the FIRST VOLUME of the latest edition of the Alchemic Codex of Skyrim. This is the local codex for the Province of Skyrim. All of the alchemical ingredients which can be found in Skyrim are detailed in this series. The series is split into FOUR volumes. An additional volume featuring rare and unique ingredients may also be special ordered. At request, the volumes from other provinces may also be ordered. A master codex is also available for order. Members of the Alchemist's Association may purchase volumes at a discounted price. Please refer to the back page of this book for more information on ordering other volumes. If you are not a member of the Alchemist's Association, please also look at the last page for information on joining the Alchemist's Association and the benefits of being a member. A numbered list of ingredients can be found at the back of this volume.

Author: Dralyn Serani [Senior member of the Alchemist's Association in Skyrim]

Year of Publication: 4E 201

Revision Number: 12

A word from the author:

Greetings, I am Dralyn Serani, one of the oldest members of the Alchemist's Association in Skyrim. I have lived in Skyrim for the past three hundred years. I once lived on the island of Vvardenfell. I studied under master Telvanni wizards. It was during this time that I discovered my love for alchemy. For the past three hundred years, I have devoted my life to studying alchemy and the inner magick within all things. After being in Skyrim for so long, I have sought every alchemic ingredient in the land. I have compiled all of the ingredients within these four volumes. The ingredients are alphabetized, and the effects of the ingredients are listed below the ingredient's name. Below the effects is a detailed description on how to get the desired effect out of an ingredient. For a master of alchemy like myself, one can simply look at any ingredient and see the inner workings of its magick. For the less adept, this Codex goes into detail on how to prepare ingredients in potions for desired effects.
_____

    1. Abecean Longfin			       	Weakness to Frost
    									Fortify Sneak
    									Weakness to Poison
    									Fortify Restoration



A common fish in Skyrim. It can be found in ponds, lakes, and other various bodies of water.

**Weakness to Frost**:
This effect is the most prominent in the Longfin. Simply consuming the fish will leave you susceptible to the cold. A common mistake for travelers in Skyrim is to eat Abecean Longfin unprepared. In order for your poison to have this effect, cut open the Longfin. Remove any internal organs from the Longfin and its spine. Also, chop the head off of the Longfin. The meat and scales of the Longfin are what give it the effect of a weakness to frost. 

**Fortify Sneak**:
This is one of the more desired effects of the Longfin. The blood of the Longfin, when consumed, has many benefits. It helps calm one's body, clear one's mind, and allows one to breath more easily. The end result of all of these properties is that the Longfin's blood allows one to sneak more easily. The easiest way to extract the blood from a Longfin is to slice its belly with a knife and drain the blood into a small bowl.

**Weakness to Poison**:
A more devilish use of the Longfin is for its ability to increase the strength of poisons. Inside the Longfin is an orange organ. By simpling slicing the body of the Longfin you can find the organ wrapped inside of the Longfin's intestines. Squeezing the juice from this organ into what you are brewing will cause the desired poisonous effect. This organ is beneficial to the Longfin because it deters predators from eating too many Longfins, lest the predator falls ill. 

**Fortify Restoration**:
The brain of the Longfin is unique in that consuming the brain will temporarily increase ones ability in Restoration magic. The easiest way to extract the brain is to chop the head off of the fish. Pull out the brain and mash it with a pestle until it is like liquid. Then, the brain juice can be added to your potion.

_____

    2. Bear Claws						Restore Stamina
    									Fortify Health
    									Fortify One-handed
    									Damage Magicka Regen


Bear Claws are simply put: the claws of bears. They are often chopped off of bears by hunters and sold to alchemists for their various alchemic uses.

**Restore Stamina:**
Consuming a plain bear claw will result in one regaining stamina. Nothing needs to be done to the claw for this effect. Simply grind the bear claw into a fine powder for easier consumption. No one wants a bear hang-nail in their potion!

**Fortify Health:**
In order to fortify health, a bear claw must be heated to extreme temperatures. Grind the claw into a fine powder and then apply a large amount of heat to the powder until it turns a reddish-pink. Now, it is ready to be added to your potion mixture.

**Fortify One Handed:** 
This property of bear claw is perhaps the most odd. Begin to brew your potion without the bear claw. After the potion has been brewed, place whole bear claws into the potion and let them soak. Leave the bear claws inside of the bottle. 

**Damage Magicka Regen:**
The properties of bear claws vary by temperature. A normal bear claw will restore stamina. A claw that has been super-heated will fortify health. Conversely, a bear claw which is super cooled will provide another effect: damaging one's magicka regeneration. The method of getting the effect is simple enough. All you have to do is grind up the bear claws and freeze them until they are a consistent purple color. A simple frost spell should suffice for cooling the claws. If you are not capable of using a frost spell, the Alchemic Association sells cooling tanks, enchanted to freeze what is inside them, which can be placed on your alchemy table. 

.....[Skip to Last Page]
_____

**Ordering Other Volumes:**

Send gold and a list of which volumes you would like to purchase to the Alchemist's Association Printing Office in High Rock. Member's of the Alchemist's Association include your mark to receive your discount.

    **Available Works (Note members get books for half the price):**
    
    Skyrim [201]- 300 gold for all 4 books		High Rock [199]- 120 gold for all 2 books
    Volume I - 80 gold							Volume I - 70 gold
    Volume II - 80 gold							Volume II - 60 gold
    Volume III -90 gold 
    Volume IV - 80 gold
    Rare and Unique Ingredients - 150 gold (must be purchased separate)
    
    Hammerfell [195] - 280 gold for all 3 books		Summerset [190]- 420 gold for all 4 books
    Volume I - 80 gold								Volume I - 190 gold
    Volume II - 130 gold							Volume II - 110 gold
    Volume III- 60 gold								Volume III -120 gold
    												Volume IV - 80 gold
    
    Valenwood [197] - 200 gold for all 3 books		Elsweyr [200] - 180 gold for all 3 books
    Volume I - 110 gold								Volume I - 100 gold
    Volume II - 55 gold								Volume II - 80 gold
    Volume III - 45 gold							Volume III- 35 gold
    												Illicit Ingredients - 150 gold (mbps)
    
    Black Marsh [194] - 450 gold for all 6 books	Morrowind [201] - 180 gold for all 2 books
    Volume I - 140 gold								Volume I - 100 gold
    Volume II - 80 gold								Volume II - 90 gold
    Volume III - 60 gold							Extinct Ingredients I - 40 gold
    Volume IV - 90 gold								Extinct Ingredients II - 35 gold
    Volume V - 120 gold
    Volume VI - 40 gold
    
    Cyrodiil [201] - 300 gold for 3 Volumes         Master Codex - 2000 gold
    Volume I - 120 gold								Includes all volumes and special books
    Volume II - 100 gold
    Volume III - 90 gold

Those who are not members of the Alchemist's Association may feel free to join. There is an initial fee of 500 gold to join the Association. After, a recurring annual fee of 100 gold must be paid. Members of the Association who contribute to the alchemic field will have their annual fee waved so long as they continue to contribute to the field. 

Members of the Association enjoy many benefits such as a discount on all volumes published by the Association, discounted alchemic equipment, and so on. Members of the Association get a discount while training with an alchemist who is a member of the Association (15%). Rare and dangerous ingredients may also be purchased from our private suppliers. The Association can provide you access to ingredients, training, and tools.

To join, send 500 gold and your identification to the Alchemist's Association Headquarters in High Rock. After joining, you will be sent a sample pack of ingredients, a catalog of our products, your unique mark, and directions to your nearest Alchemist's Association hall.

At a hall, you can buy ingredients and apparatuses, train, and research alchemy. Grants are given to halls for researching new properties in alchemy, for inventing, and for discovering and documenting ingredients on expeditions.





