---
title: "Ghost"
reddit: 2r78cd
author: FelineErotica
date: 2015-01-03T12:56:26Z
---

##UTNM Memospore Database:  #18822 Node 3 G. Randavayn, Odiion

*ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS NTK.  AUTHORISED BY TELVANNI HIGH COUNCIL FOR VIEWING BY TIER 5 OR HIGHER.  TELVANNI ALWAYS.  ANDIAMORPHIC, BLASPHEMOUS, BIZZARE*


Ghost Team 3 performed a breach and clear, sending pieces of the door flying off into the black abyss of the ships interior.  Commander Idrathyn commanded both Famaas and I to recon the inside.

We stepped in, our Guns aimed and ready.  I popped in a Gem and selected Shock.  There's no way there was going to be Nords on this ship.  Famaas wasn't so sure.  I released a magelight from my belt and floated it down the hall.  No signs of life.  Yet.

I called all clear and the rest of Ghost Team stepped in.  I followed the light, making my way down the ships hallway.  I was about to call out hallway clear, until I noticed it.  Blood.  Not smeared.  Not dripping.  Precise, straight lines.  

Famaas swore under his breath at the sight.  We both knew what had happened here.  Indrathyn said what we were all thinking.  Jel Mathematics.  So it wasn't Hlaalu raiders after all.  I sent a Spore back to Telvanni command, notifying them of the situation.  

I watched as the small Telvanni sigil in my Retinal Display slowly spun, indicating that the Spore was being sent.  We heard a scream coming from below the ship.  Our Guns ready, we moved down the hall carefully.

The screams were coming from the cargo hold below.  It took at least 3 F-Grenades to make it through the broken hatch.  I have to admit, even our caravans are built tough.  I guess that's also why we were using F-Grenades in an enclosed Ayem Class Caravan.  Any other ship built by any other house would have been disintegrated and floating through Oblivion.

I fell through, letting me Slowfall boots soften the fall.  The rest of Ghost team followed.  The screaming had stopped abruptly.  Cold fear overtook me.  I checked my Retinal Display.  The Spore still hadn't been sent.  Something was blocking it.

Jel Mathematics were blocking it.

We walked right into an ambush.

THEY were still here.
