---
title: "Synod Charter Handbook: Chapter I: Purpose"
reddit: 2sej99
author: zackroot
date: 2015-01-14T14:44:50Z
---

**SYNOD CHARTER HANDBOOK**
 
**published by Deonus Harmon, 4E 21**

**publisher: Arcane University Press**


**CHAPTER 1:**
**Purpose**

 The Conclave for the Vigilance and Perseverance of Mundus (hereafter referred to as "The Synod") was established in 4E 20 upon termination of the Great Debate following years of discussion and strife within our predecessor, the Mages Guild. The consensus of the Great Debate was clear: the lack of a definite answer to the metaphysical laws governing the Aurbis was evidence that its constituents, regardless of realm, were not meant to exceed the boundaries of their own existence, known as The Wall. Until the day that its inner workings were solved, it was to be our inherent duty to secure and purge any violations of this transgression into Mundus, The Here. 

 Though our way is pure and correct, it would be foolish to deny that Mundus has, already, experienced many transgressions along The Wall. The Daedra are, above all, the worst of these violators, their entire purpose to interfere and meddle with the creation of which they desired no part, confined to the realms of Oblivion, The Between. The worst crime of all is to seek council with the Daedra, regardless of their purpose. The Oblivion Crisis has been one of many events that have shown us that mortals will never understand the true intentions of the Daedra nor the true medium of which they are summoned. Necromancy is no better, its workings fixed to destroy the natural laws of death and tampering with the Dreamsleeve. In all we do, we strive to defend the natural order of Mundus and prevent further irresponsible manipulation.

 In our quest to understand the Aurbis, our weapons are that which have been granted to us from across The Wall: magicka, the essence of Aetherius. In its everso-complicated perfection, we utilize the essence of The Beyond as it has been given to us. Whatever is at our disposal is to be used to its full effectiveness to defend The Wall. Our goal as a whole is to teach the ways of The Beyond in a way that, one day, we may fully understand existence and use it to its ultimate potential. Your role in The Synod is vital: the future of Mundus rests in the hands of those willing to strive to and beyond the call of duty to defend the homeland of us all and further understand it.



