---
title: "Interview with the Third Eltrutkcom"
reddit: 2t77fn
author: Ushankaclock
date: 2015-01-21T19:07:44Z
---

[Mock Turtle](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Battlespire:Mock_Turtle) writings! Since I became aware of him, I refuse to accept him as an easter egg. Here is an attempt to shoehorn him into canon.

***

Months of being sent on wild goose chases around the south of Valenwood had been a waste of time, so I thought, until the Eltrutkcom finally revealed himself to me. He came ever-so-slowly through the rain, and looked like a young Sea-Elf. But those weren’t the fiery eyes of mischief I’d expect of a Maormer brigand – they were as deep and relaxed as an old sage’s.

**Tell me about yourself.**

*I am the The Eltrutkcom, third of my name, seeing-hearing servant to my master.* 

**Who is your master?** 

*My master is the last of an ancient race from Pyandonea. They are called Mock Turtles, as their Ehlnofey precursors copied the form of the thick skinned creatures that crawled the sands, out of respect and envy. But as I said, he is the last – the others were hunted by my brothers for their flesh, and so he hides.* 

**Where is he?**

*He is elsewhere. I have never seen him myself, but he speaks to me and through me. But he is elsewhere, that’s all he wants you to know.*

**Who are your predecessors?**

*My predecessors were also both Maormer. The First was taken in vengeful anger, taking their flesh as they did with the master’s people. The First Eltrutkcom was made to tear apart Maormer villages and burn them to the ground. But then, my master began to love the Maormer as he saw through their eyes, and regretted his actions, and sent the First to instead teach and rebuild - "his name backwards, where it would do most good". The Second was a king, my master tells me. He was the eyes of the master for many many years, until the Second began to steal the master’s knowledge of the Obscure Disciplines for his own designs. My master destroyed his knowledge of the Disciplines, and then he found me – a pirate and marauder, until he showed me his ways. I am most grateful.*

**What are the Obscure Disciplines?**

*The Disciplines are Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision. He studied Ambition under the Daedric Prince Mehrunes Dagon, but I know nothing of what these Disciplines entail. Maybe a day will come where he will teach me, when he regains his trust.*
