---
title: "The Aldmeri Inquisition Pt.1"
reddit: 2tum8z
author: Thekidwiththedogs
date: 2015-01-27T15:59:01Z
---

151st year of the 4th Era,

The door slammed shut, and the wooden bar dropped, no one was to enter. Kalabor ripped back his black and purple cloak revealing his white-gold hair and gilded skin. He dropped the missive given to him by his colleague Elenwen on the table and flipped through the first few pages and read aloud the names mentioned. He stopped when he read one he recognized. "Talwen" he whispered softly. Kalabor knew this name, it belonged to a recruit of the Aldmeri Army, a fairly radical recruit. Talwen was young, bitter, vain, and especially temperamental. A voice came from behind a wooden door "Kalabor, come here! We've got him" Kalabor paced himself towards the door, and walked through the entryway to the next room. A bosmer wearing a combination of chain-mail and leather armor approached Kalabor"Excellent, you're back, I saved this one for you". "All yours old friend" Mandel, as the Bosmer was called, graciously Walked towards the center of the room and pulled off the cloth covering their prisoners eyes. He was young, Altmer, and very patriotic. His hands were chained to the floor, yet he glared at the two as if he were the predator, and they were prey. "State your name and rank" Mandel commanded. "Oblivion swallow you a-" Mandels fist cut him off. "State your name and rank, and we'll let you keep your tongue". Mandel drew his blade and grabbed his prisoners jaw "Last warning". "My name..." The prisoner struggled to get out. "My name... Is Malek, I'm the commander of a small garrison of Aldmeri soldiers, and I will have your heads". Kalabor approached Malek "do you know the name Talwen?". Malek remained silent. Mandel sprung forward and clutched Maleks ears in his tiny fists. "Answer him or I will rip off your ears". Maleks voice cracked as he answered "yes". "Tell me where he is" Mandel yelled as his grip tightened to the point his fingers became white. "I don't know, I don't know, he's no longer under my command. He was moved I swear!". Mandel loosened his grip of Malek's ears and turned to Kalabor. "What now" with a distasteful look he met Malek's eyes and answered "no one must know what happened here". Malek began to wale in distress "please please let me live, let me live for Auri'Els sake". Mandel paused for nearly an instant before responding "you Dominioners are vain, cruel, and frankly you've pissed me off" Mandel rested his grip on Malek's ears once more "so high and mighty with ears of a god". The Woodelf ripped his fists away, an ear in each hand. Maleks' writhed in pain as his head began to bleed. He stayed silent, soldiers don't scream when they've lost everything. Kalabor leaned in and whispered to Malek "now you listen and you listen well". Mandel let out a chuckle "listen as good as you can, we will find Talwen and we will kill him. The Knights of Lorkhan always meet their mark, and it won't be long now". Kalabor drew his Ebony dagger and thrusted it upward into Malek's chin. The session was over.
