---
title: "Thrice Blessed and Thrice Cursed: Memories of a Dunmer Pilgrim (Part 6, Chapter 2)"
reddit: 2u22gp
author: The_Silvenar
date: 2015-01-29T06:35:00Z
---

By Erdar Nyrandil, 4E 202

***

**Chapter Two**

*The Blessing of Inspiration* (Continued from [Part 1] (http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2tvmo0/thrice_blessed_and_thrice_cursed_memories_of_a/), [Part 2] (http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2twa0r/thrice_blessed_and_thrice_cursed_memories_of_a/), [Part 3] (http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2twqr7/thrice_blessed_and_thrice_cursed_memories_of_a/), [Part 4] (https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2txisz/thrice_blessed_and_thrice_cursed_memories_of_a/), and [Part 5] (http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2tz6y7/thrice_blessed_and_thrice_cursed_memories_of_a/))

**10th of Sun’s Dawn, 3E 426**

Today, I was named Initiate of the Temple. Sometimes these advancements mean relocating, but Master Valen has informed me that I can continue to serve here in Ald’Ruhn. My noteworthy grasp of the Temple doctrine, and my levelheaded nature certainly helped me in the swift progress to Initiate. But I believe it has been my progress with the healing and the alchemical arts which has impressed many of the higher ranks. I seem to possess the willpower necessary to tap into the mysteries of restoration, and thankfully it almost comes naturally.^1 The alchemical work, however, has been a true labor.

While in Cyrodiil, I had practiced with the mortar and pestle from time to time, and knew enough about the local flora and fauna to create a simple healing potion in a pinch. But as a member of the Temple ranks, I am expected to have a better understanding than most if I wish to serve ALMSIVI and the people of Morrowind. The trouble has been in learning the necessary skills. Books and practice are key, and I have had time for such things. But a teacher is really a necessity if one wishes to progress in a craft without inborn talent. Regrettably, the Temple here in Ald’Ruhn lacks such a teacher. Folvys Andalor clearly has the skills, but he has no interest in teaching, leaving me with one choice: the Mages Guild.

Though interaction with the Imperial organization is not strictly forbidden, many of both Great House Redoran and the Temple would surely disapprove of their members keeping contact with a Mages Guild practitioner. Hence the caution exerted and extra coin I spent to learn in secret from the Altmer alchemist at the local guild; one Anarenen. I met with the old mer three times a week in the darkest hours of the night in order to hone my skills, and despite losing a fair amount of sleep and gold, I think it was worth it. With the skills I developed under Anarenen’s tutelage, and my inherent gift and interest in healing spells, I was an obvious choice for advancement.

As an Initiate, I am now expected to tend to the people of Morrowind, rather than simply devote myself to the caretaking of the Temple, study, and prayer as I did during my brief period as a Novice of the Temple. Henceforth, I am charged with providing healing to the sick, and guidance to those who have lost their way in life. More specifically, Master Valen has charged me with the regular task of assisting Folvys Andalor with potion production (maybe I’ll learn more along the way seeing that Folvys will practically *have* to teach me if I don’t know something). I am also charged with making weekly visits to the guard towers to deliver potions to cure Blight. Finally, I am to make rounds every Morndas, Middas, and Loredas to the poorer neighborhoods, checking in on residents. Master Valen has made it perfectly clear that I am not to proselytize, nor to force lessons upon any who do not seek the teachings. I am only to check on the poor in Ald’Ruhn, and to aid them if I am able, whether through guidance or through healings. It seems like a lot, but I couldn’t be more excited.

**21st of First Seed, 3E 426**

Master Tuls Valen has given me an opportunity to reenact Vivec’s compassionate healing of a foe. Word has reached the Temple that a worshiper of one of the Four Corners of the House of Trouble (namely the madgod Sheogorath) has fallen ill under the Blight. Master Valen has tasked me with showing compassion on this misguided worshiper by curing her Blight. I am either to cure her with one of the potions Folvys and I made, or utilize the spell. Due to the cost and time it takes to make the potion, Master Valen would prefer I perform a spell if I am able. Thank ALMSIVI that I learned Rilm’s Gift months ago.

Now I just need to reach the Daedric shrine, Maelkashishi, and hope that Bulfim gra-Shugharz, the infected, shows me mercy and peace so that I may in turn show compassion. Maelkashishi is supposedly found by heading east from Ald Velothi until I reach the mountains, then following the mountains to the south. The architecture is always a give away.

**11th of Rain’s Hand, 3E 426**

While on my rounds through the pauper districts today, I found a Dunmer (who will remain nameless in this journal) who was addicted to skooma. I am not entirely familiar with the drug myself, but he seemed to have had a bad batch, as he was in the process of being violently ill when I found him. Skooma addiction is deplorable, and I cannot help but feel disappointed in this Dunmer. However, I must also show compassion.

As I understand, skooma addiction is not curable through potion or spell. But to think that the foul concoction can steal a life with no chance of redemption seems impossible to me. Perhaps the mer needs only to find his way back to the teachings of ALMSIVI? I of course am not supposed to proselytize, but I have read that there were heroes in history who, through strength of will overcame great obstacles. Why, the Ghostfence itself and the Shrine of Pride are symbols of the indomitable will and power of ALMSIVI. Surely then there must be a way for this downtrodden mer to overcome the addiction, and surely the answer must be in the teachings of the Temple. In the mean time, I sat with him, soothing him with healing spells to try and ease his pain.

**28th of Rain’s Hand, 3E 426**

I have been praying and keeping a watchful eye over the addict for over two weeks now. He responded well to my encouragement of his duties to Temple and to House Redoran, but I can tell he craves the skooma still. I feel that I have exhausted the Temple library here in Ald’Ruhn. Perhaps I will check in the bookshop near the Skar later today.

I stopped by and spoke with the bookseller, Codus Callonus. As luck would have it, he had a book on skooma addiction, but I have reservations as the author (Tiles Sendas, a recovered addict) does not necessarily believe skooma addiction is a moral issue. Regardless, perhaps this book can assist the poor addict I have taken under my care, as at least some of what the author wrote seems true and useful.

**19th of Second Seed, 3E 426**

Master Valen wished to speak with me this morning. It seems a certain pauper stopped in yesterday to rededicate himself to a proper life, and had high praises for the work I had done. I could tell that Valen was quite pleased as well, but it seems he had more than praise for me. He asked that I make a pilgrimage to the Temple at Maar Gan. There, I am to study the tale of how Vivec faced Mehrunes Dagon who threatened the people with a large rock, and the wise Vivec taunted the Daedra into throwing the rock at him instead. After I complete my pilgrimage, Master Valen told me that we have much to discuss.

**31st of Frostfall, 3E 426**

I received sad yet exciting news this afternoon. After finishing my lecture on the life of Saint Seryn and her courageous sacrifices, I dismissed the Initiates and the Acolytes and found Master Valen waiting for me. Since awarding me the rank of Curate, Master Valen has often liked to join me for my midday meditative reflections on the tribulations Vivec endured and the virtues we extol from his actions. Today, however, he had the look of one with news.

Master Valen informed me that the other Masters all agreed it was time for me to relocate. They reasoned that as I had only been an official member of the priesthood for under a year, my rapid rise through the ranks was either an error on Master Valen’s part, or that I am touched and inspired by ALMSIVI in a way few of the order ever are.^2 To this end, Master Valen was instructed to turn my services over to Master Tharer Rotheloth in Molag Mar, where I would be closely watched as I carried out my duties as Curate.

The news saddened me, as I truly love Ald’Ruhn and her people. Moreover, this Temple was the very place where my passion for service originated. Of course, I am also worried that the other Masters think me to be a fraud, and wise Master Valen to be a fool. Such beliefs could not be further from the truth. Under Master Valen’s guidance, I have learned much, and I have grown to a devotion far superior to that which I held at the start of this year. I can only hope that I continue to feel the inspiration of ALMSIVI flow through me in Molag Mar, as I do here. I am to pack my belongings and take the first silt strider out of Ald’Ruhn. Despite my sorrow and qualms, I think that this move will be a grand adventure.

**15th of First Seed, 3E 427**

I am not one for humor, but to the uninformed observer, it would seem that Master Rotheloth wishes to see me dead. First there was that business with the necromancer in Mawia, and now I am to infiltrate a vampire’s lair and slay the elder vampire Raxle Berne. Of course, I know that Master Rotheloth wishes only to challenge me to serve ALMSIVI to my fullest; instructing the Initiates and Acolytes and caring for the shrines and relics is not all there is to the duties of a Curate. We must also act with bravery and purge Morrowind of corrupted creatures and foul practitioners of unsanctimonious arts. Besides, if Master Rotheloth did not care for my well being, he would never have given me Veloth’s Judgement, a hammer of impeccable craftsmanship. With this hammer, I will go to Galom Daeus and bash in the skull of that accursed vampire.

Raxle Berne is dead, but I found something peculiar. It’s not every day I get a chance to step into a Dwemer ruin, so my curiosity got the better of me when I found the elder vampire in the observatory. Once I disposed of the vampires, I used a potion of levitation to get a better look at the mechanism which allowed the Dwemer to study the sky. While examining the device, I noticed folios perched on a ledge. It appears to be a collection of papers compiled by one Galur Rithari, a Buoyant Armiger. In these folios, Rithari claims to have contracted vampirism and to have discovered a cure by petitioning Molag Bal. I am positive these works must be heretical, but I have a terrible feeling about turning the documents over to the Temple. I have decided to leave the folios where I found them. Surely no good can come of destroying the documents, no matter their heresy. ALMSIVI forgive me.^3

**2nd of Second Seed, 3E 427**

Master Rotheloth has decreed that I am indeed no fraud, and that ALMSIVI has blessed me to be an inspiration to many. I could hardly believe my ears; to receive such praise was almost embarrassing. But I am proud to now be recognized as Disciple of the Temple. With this new title, I am encouraged to travel, and to spread the good works of the Tribune across the land. I am also expected to begin writing; mostly simple sermons or perhaps histories for the laymen, though doctrinal treatises are sometimes produced by priests of my rank. I have long pondered over writing a history on the life of Saint Roris and the Arnesian War, but perhaps I will focus on the early conflicts with the Dwemer, and the sainthood of Nerevar. It’s a difficult choice; I wonder if my writings will stand the test of time and inspire young Temple Initiates in the generations to come.^4

**23rd of Second Seed, 3E 427**

I received a missive from Master Valen congratulating me on my advancement. He also noted that he had a dangerous matter of Temple Justice with which he hoped I could help. It seems a dark cult, perhaps associated with the devil Dagoth Ur has been active in Hassour. Master Valen hoped that I could investigate the cult, and bring the cultists to justice. As I am encouraged to travel the land as a Disciple of the Temple, I have agreed to Master Valen’s request. If my aim is true and if ALMSIVI protects my life, perhaps I will travel to the Ghostgate after administering justice but. I am interested in learning more of the Buoyant Armigers and the work of the priests stationed at the great barrier which protects all Dunmer.

**7th of Sun’s Dusk, 3E 427**

I have finished my first history. Master Llaren has promised to review it before we set the Adepts to the task of transcription and reproduction. In the meantime, she wished for me to recover yet another artifact. This time, she asked me to enter the Ghostfence and retrieve the Cleaver of Saint Felms, believed to be in the Ash Vampire Citadel of Tureynulal. I must confess that such a task terrifies me. I have faced many dangers since joining the Temple, including cultists from the accursed Sixth House. But I have never been further inside the Ghostefence than the shrine of the Grace of Pride. I have no desire to ever meet an Ash Vampire, but I will not shirk my duty. I will speak with the Buoyant Armigers about how I would even find this Citadel, and I shall prepare myself by mixing potions to conceal my presence, so that I might avoid certain death at the hands of Corprus and Ash beast alike.

** 2nd of Evening Star, 3E 427**

I have been receiving letters from all of the Masters praising my history on Saint Roris and the Arnesian War. It seems that I was able to strike a balance between focusing on the pious virtues of Saint Roris while also creating an easy to digest, and Temple approved telling of the history of the Arnesian War. Master Valen predicts that this will be a hit among the laymen in Morrowind, and Master Rotheloth was very pleased with my fair but blunt treatment of the basic right for Dunmers to own slaves, and how this fits within the compassionate mercy of ALMSIVI.^5 Best of all, Master Endryn Llethan at the city of Vivec would like me to serve under him as Diviner!

**24th of Morning Star, 3E 428**

I heard today that Great House Hlaalu named a Hortator recently, and almost immediately after named the Hortator as their new Grandmaster. What in Vivec’s name is happening? Regrettably, I have to take a vow of silence tomorrow to undergo a pilgrimage to the Sanctus Shrine. It might be a while before I can investigate the strange goings on with House Hlaalu. I suppose this so-called Hortator will be seeking approval from my own House soon…

**12th of Sun’s Dawn, 3E 428**

It seems this is my time to make pilgrimages. This morning Master Llethan informed me that Archcanon Saryoni sought my audience. When I entered the Archcanon’s office, he explained that an important pilgrimage in the Temple is that of the Four Corners of the House of Troubles. He would like for me to begin these pilgrimages, and promises that he will not ask me to make the full pilgrimage all at once. He understands that I have certain responsibilities as a Diviner, and does not wish to interfere with those responsibilities. For the first pilgrimage, I am to go to a shrine to the evil Daedra Malacath, located in Sheogorad.

**3rd of Rain’s Hand, 3E 428**

At the request of Master Llethan, I found and brought to justice a cult to Sheogorath located right here in the holy city. The gall of these cultists.

**7th of Rain’s Hand, 3E 428**

I was called into the Archcanon’s office today. I presumed he was planning on sending me on to the Third Corner, as it has been about a month since my last pilgrimage. However, he wished to discuss with me my service to the Temple. Apparently, my efforts are worthy of the title of Master. The Archcanon has asked that I continue to serve in Vivec, and assured me that I would not be displacing Master Llethan. As a Master, I am expected to be a beacon for the Temple, and a compass for its priests and laymen.

**31st of Second Seed, 3E 428**

I have completed the final pilgrimage for the Four Corners of the House of Troubles. I should be glad, but my heart is full of worry. It is hardly a secret that there are many in the camp of the Dissident Priests, and though I have held that their words are heresy, I have been hearing more and more about the one who was named Hortator and who now is going to the Ashlanders to be named Nerevarine. How can this be? I have dealt with False Incarnates in the past, but the things I hear about this would-be Nerevarine have put doubt into my heart. Were we wrong to persecute the Dissident Priests? I dare not express these doubts to my my fellow Masters.

**18th of Midyear, 3E 428**

I don’t even know where to begin. I was walking by the Archcanon’s office when I noticed a stranger entering. The stranger was clearly invited, but also clearly not a member of the Temple.

Later, I received word from the Archcanon that the Temple will now support the Nerevarine at the command of Vivec. I could not believe my ears; could it be that the stories have been true? Has Saint Nerevar truly been reincarnated?

**9th of Sun’s Height, 3E 428**

ALMSIVI BE PRAISED! The Nerevarine has triumphed! Dagoth Ur has fallen!

**27th of Sun’s Height, 3E 428**

Archcanon Saryoni sent for me today. We had a long meeting, discussing the coming changes to the Temple. Apparently, we will be welcoming the Dissident Priests back into the fold, among other changes. Saryoni confessed to me that he was not sure he could weather such changes easily, and intended to retire to write sermons. He has asked that I take over as Archcanon.

While flattering, this is a bold request. I am so young for an elf, and many still regard me to this day as an outlander. Further, despite the inspiration I wield from ALMSIVI, I have served the Temple for less than three years. But Archcanon Saryoni believes that these qualities are to my advantage. He feels that with the coming changes, the Temple will need an Archcanon who is young and vigorous, someone with energy as well as devotion. He also believes that my experience with the Empire will serve me well, and noted that the time has come for a leader who is able to straddle the world of tradition and progress. It is a lot to take in, and I have asked for time to reflect on his request. The Archcanon granted it, but asked that I make one last pilgrimage while I reflect. This time to recover an artifact. I have been asked to bring the Archcanon the Ebony Mail, found in Mount Assarnibibi where Molag Bal oversaw the ninety-nine lovers of Boethiah that gave birth to Almalexia. The Ebony Mail is only bestowed to those worthy of the cuirass. I have accepted his request, and pray that I am worthy to receive the Ebony Mail, and that this journey gives me the strength and inspiration I will need if I am to accept this honor he wishes to bestow.

***

1. In all likelihood, my natural talents and interests in restoration spells likely came from the tragedy I suffered as a child. In the deepest, most secret recesses of my heart, I wanted nothing more than to rid the world of Corprus. Of course, I knew that my desire was nothing more than a fanciful notion; the impossible dream of a wounded youth. Curing someone of Blight was one thing, but curing someone of Corprus? Not even Almsivi had performed such a miracle. In later years, I had heard that Divayth Fyr had supposedly discovered a way to cure the afflicted, though some say he did not actually **cure** anyone at all. Regardless of Fyr’s success or lack thereof, the idea in the back of my mind that the disease could be eradicated spurred me on to explorative studies of the restoration spells.

2. Now that I am considerably older than when I first wrote this journal entry, I will not be humble in my assertion that my rapid promotion was not uncalled for. I brought an energy and fervor to the Temple that was without rival in my time, and as a result, I advanced through the ranks at a rapid pace. I truly *was* inspired. Further, I had removed all distraction from my life in an effort to serve ALMSIVI and Morrowind completely. I had not even entertained the thought of a the fairer sex since beginning my life in the Temple. It should also be noted here that this period in Morrowind’s history was in many ways one of upheaval. A little over a year after my relocation to Molag Mar, stories of the Incarnate, Nerevar reborn, would begin surfacing in a great flurry. Soon after, Dagoth Ur would be defeated. I even recall that between 3E 427 and 3E 428, multiple factions were restructured or under new leadership, Morrowind and Imperial faction alike. It seemed that the world was changing, and in a hurry.

3. Despite all of my fervor and desire to be a disciplined and traditional Dunmer, my experiences coming to age in cosmopolitan Cyrodiil occasionally created in me an aversion to some of the more barbaric practices of the Tribunal faith, with the burning of knowledge of any kind being high on that list of aversions. I would later be very glad at my decision.

4. They didn’t and they wouldn’t have. If you have found this memoir at all difficult to stomach, you should have seen the heaping pile of netch waste my early writings were. All the same, my first history, which focused on  Saint Roris and the Arnesian War, did solidify my chances for even further advancement in the Temple.

5. Let it be known that I no longer hold these views. During my youthful days in the Temple, I believed that slavery was for the betterment of Dunmer, Argonian, and Khajiit alike. My years in Cyrodiil had shown me that Argonians and Khajiit could be quite bright, but I was still raised in a household which maintained traditional views. During these years, I saw Argonians and Khajiit as inferior races, who practically needed to belong to a life of servitude for their own good. Otherwise, I wrongly reasoned, they would make foolish and destructive choices, such as becoming addicted to skooma or winding up as beggars. As slaves, they could be cared for and have instilled in them a sense of duty and loyalty they would (in my mind at that time) otherwise lack. Of course, slavery was a bit of an uncomfortable and nasty business, but it helped the “lesser” races and kept Morrowind strong, I reasoned. Of course, I was wrong. I see that now, and I want to state here that I have owed my life more than once to brave Khajiit and Argonians across Tamriel.

***

Note from OP: This is the longest post thus far in Erdar's series. As I am sure those of you who stuck around noticed, I prescribe to the theory that the quests are not all done by the Nerevarine. I've also, obviously, fudged the dates a bit with a few quests taking place before the Nerevarine's arrival to Seyda Neen in 3E 427.

While writing this, I tried to strike a balance between keeping a reasonable timeline, providing a small amount of insight into the daily life of a priest at the various ranks, and further establishing Erdar's character. As we enter Chapter 3, we go into relatively uncharted territory with the initial restructure of the Temple following the Nerevarine's victory, the Oblivion Crisis in Morrowind, and the Red Year. Provided there is still interest for Chapter 3, I may end up splitting the chapter into parts so as to better devote time into the lore of each of these distinct periods and events. Though I feel Chapter 2 is long, I also feel like we are rushing along in his life, with good fortune at nearly every turn, all explained away by the first blessing, the Blessing of Inspiration provided by ALMSIVI. But in many ways, this is material we all know and love, with a few tidbits of my take on the duties of priests at various levels; i.e. Chapter two is still character building, ramping up to the point less explored: Morrowind after the game.

As always, I hope you enjoyed this. Please don't hesitate to let me know what you think, provide suggestions for improvement, criticisms, high fives through the Aetherius, or cease and desists.

***
[Part 7] (http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2v64c3/thrice_blessed_and_thrice_cursed_memories_of_a/)
