---
title: "MEMORY, SONG, AND DARKNESS: A Disquisition On The Chiropteran Elves (And Other Concerning Citizens) Of The Ynesleaic Archipelago, Volume I"
reddit: 2u7h81
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2015-01-30T16:04:21Z
---

&gt;#MEMORY, SONG, AND DARKNESS: A Disquisition on the Chiropteran Elves (And Other Concerning Citizens) of the Ynesleaic Archipelago
&gt;
&gt;#Authored By: Eis Vuur Warden, Scholar of the Imperial Geographical Society, Circa 4E 201
______________________________________________________

#Exordium

The Third Empire of Men, founded by Emperor Tiber Septim in 2E 896, was the strongest out of all of the Empires born from Cyrodiil. Believe me…I’ve lived through quite a few of them. Even the Mede Dynasty of Emperors, forged by Titus Mede I in the 17th year of our current era – the Fourth – admits this. All threats that dared to challenge it were utterly defeated. Periods of unrest – such as the First Arnesian War, the Camoran Usurper, the Imperial Simulacrum, the Battlespire Siege, the Fall of the Tribunal, and the Oblivion Crisis – were ended by the hands of mythical heroes personally backed by the Dragonborn lineage.

Yet the Septims were also very neglectful in regards to the provinces and territories under their authority, especially in keeping records and. By the Hist, the island of Solstheim didn’t even appear on Tamrielic maps until the mysterious Bloodmoon Prophecy of Solstheim occurred! One could forget that some of these places were even controlled by the Empire at all.

The archipelago of Yneslea, which lies isolated within the Padomaic Ocean, is perhaps the most interesting and infamous of these Imperial territories. Ever since Yneslea was assimilated into the Empire it has done nothing but aid the continent of Tamriel. Of course now it stands alone again, having seceded from the Empire early on in the common era, and strives to remain neutral in the ongoing friction between the Mede Dynasty and the Aldmeri Dominion.

I have been staying on the islands of Yneslea for sometime now since the one hundredth year of this era. I have learned much about its native peoples, as well as its diverse history, customs, and cultures. Yet only a few works concerning the archipelago exist in the Imperial Library back in the Imperial City (perhaps a result of either shoddy bookkeepers or the battles of the throne before Mede came).

So since I have had ample spare time, having completed what I originally came here to do many years ago and not feeling of the mind to return to Cyrodiil, I have written the first edition to what I have fondly nicknamed the ‘Yneslea Encyclopedia’. While its not in alphabetical order, it is compromised of the comprehensive information needed for completely learning about understanding anything pertaining to the archipelago.

Hopefully it serves whoever comes across it well, because I spent a lot of time working on it. Also, don’t use it as a paperweight or something to bash away an irritating pixie. Book binding costs money you know, and the East Empire Company has just raised its prices.

Hmm, I seem to be forgetting something…oh yeah, enjoy I suppose.

Eis Vuur Warden

Saxhleel Historian, Cosmologist, Scholar, Painter, and Writer of the Imperial Geographical Society

23rd of Frostfall 4E 201
______________________________________________________

#[Chapter One: On The Archipelago](http://s5.postimg.org/7908buk5z/Yneslea_Map.jpg)
&gt;Figure 1: A Map of the Ynesleaic Archipelago, commonly used by members of the East Empire Company.

##Whispers of the Ice Cream Isle

Although no official contact between Yneslea and Tamriel ever occurred before 3E 278, the citizens of Dawn’s Beauty have had legends involving it circulating since the First Era – the ‘Fighting Diamond of Cyrodiil’ Uriel Septim V were told these legends at a young age and it is commonly accepted that they were the main inspiration for his failed Invasion of Akavir. When Reman Cyrodiil united the Colovian Estates and the Nibenay Valley in 1E 2703 to fight (and soundly defeat) the invading Tsaesci at Pale Pass, the aggressors laid down their arms and swore allegiance to Reman, who was named Emperor of the newly founded Second Empire of Men. The Akaviri Dragonguard, created by the Tsaesci to serve as Reman’s personal protection, began to tell the Emperor stories of ‘majestic lands to the east’ inhabited by ‘strange beast-men, tribal elves, and monsters’. While it is known that the Cyrodiil attempted to explore these reported lands, he and his descendants only succeeded in discovering the almost timeless Roscrea and the utterly strange Cathnoquey.

When remnants of Ada’Soom Dir-Kamal’s army (survivors who had escaped death at the hands of the infamous Ebonheart Pact) resurfaced during the Interregnum and stole the Ruby Throne, one of the first things they did was to destroy all bat iconography found in Cyrodiil and surrounding provinces (for a reason that shall be discussed later on in this volume). Few writings still exist from that dark historical period, but some texts recovered from the Imperial Library mention the Kamal telling the Elder Council about ‘bat elves’ that fought with ‘metal warriors on atolls of lost melodic impressions’ they were planning on invading once they secured their rule over all of Tamriel and located some relic known as the ‘Ordained Receptacle’. Luckily the Kamal Pretender-Kings were disposed of, but not before they sparked renewed interest in the islands beyond the eastern provinces; a spark that Uriel V would later transform into a raging inferno.

A common Tamrielic misconception is that Yneslea is one island when in reality it is an archipelago that consists of dozens, although only eight – Yne, Slea, Pasgaviati, Elysia, Morubixaba, and the three islets known together as Hrahn’s Isles – are officially considered the main Echmeri territories, with the rest being either slightly populated, barren, or military outposts. But before we can describe those islands in a better manner let us first discuss the peculiar local waters, for without them the interesting environs of the islands would not exist.

##Sailing The Padomaic: Bodies of Water

The Ynesleaic archipelago lies in-between the Starry Heart and the Dragon Land within the Padomaic Ocean, the largest body of water on Nirn. Sailors have noted that the waves are always in a state of turmoil and are dangerous to navigate, being host to whirlpools and deadly sea creatures. Although the Echmer have never been particularly interested in voyaging to far from their lands they also admit that the majority of the reasoning behind this decision stems from the deadly waters that surround them. According to Echmer mythohistory, the reason why the waters are so anarchic is because their Protoechi ancestors imprisoned a powerful spirit within the Dweech in ancient times, and its rage gives the seas mystical properties. Although this has never been proven, the seas do seem to contain some otherworldly element that confuses both natives and outsiders alike. Hagreger the Calm, a famous Echmer seafarer, was the first individual to sail the waves around Yneslea and named the three bodies of water that surround the archipelago: the Bitter Sea, the Chaotic Sea, and the Channel of Tru’Gitet.

The Bitter Sea is the expanse of water that surrounds Yneslea to the north and west, and is filled with jagged rocks (resulting in the natives giving it the ill nickname of “the Bites”) and perpetual thunderstorms. It meets the Chaotic Sea to the south and east. According to his journals Hagreger came up with the name due to the taste of the water and the intensely cold winds that swept through the area. In more northern areas icebergs are common alongside a fine frozen mist.

The Chaotic Sea to the south and east is considered much more dangerous than the Bites due to its powerful whirlpools and abundance of violent sea beasts. Because of the volcanic activity of small islands in the sea it is considerably much more hotter than the Bitter and is covered with a thick haze. Because of this haze Akaviri forces are sometimes able to sneak up on the Ynesleaic archipelago, something the Echmer have always hated. Hagreger’s journals state the seafarer got lost in the Chaotic for a considerable amount of time, and was badly burned when a volcano island erupted and set fire to his ship.

Where the two seas meet between the islands of Yne and Slea forms the Channel of Tru’Gitet (‘Channel of Gentle Winds’), the only calm waters in the Ynesleaic archipelago. Ships sailing from the eastern coast of Yne to the western coast of Slea (and vice versa) are able to conduct their business safely and effectively with little to no issue besides from Brigands operating on the water and underwater beasts.

##Eternal Chimes: The Eight Islands

“When we first stepped onto the island in the region we eventually learned to call the Ambient Littoral, sick to death after the torturous stretch of frozen water we had just came out of and senescence – although the mages our Lord Uriel V had brought were beginning to do their job well – making us weary, I could’ve sworn that I was dreaming. The colors, the smells, the sounds were of a place that was both ancient and new. The beasts that we saw were of an ilk only a child could fathom. I looked at my liege, who smiled a half-smile that told us all he was entranced with this new acquisition of his, and I knew then in my heart that we had discovered a hidden land that signaled our journey was almost at an end. For the first time in months, I was glad.”

The above paragraph, written by Commander Hung-tat Torpal in his book “Eyelid to Power, the Eastern Fleet Futility”, is still considered an excellent and truthful (although antiquated in wording) statement in regards to the islands of Yneslea – isolated realms that each have their own wonders and dangers, practically untouched by Tamrielic hands.

The Ynesleaic Archipelago is officially condensed of the eight landmasses that were conquered by the Echmer during the First Era. The two largest islands of Yne and Slea (which were condensed into ‘Yneslea’ by Uriel Septim V as a name for the entire archipelago) are the ancestral homes of the bat elves and is where their vast underground cities are partially located. The other five islands of Morubixaba, Pasgaviati, Elysia, and Hrahn’s Isles (which consists of three small islands) are less strategically important, but are home to notable settlements that are considered valuable to the Echmer people as a whole.

###Yne

**Yne** (which means ‘Reverberate’ in the Echmer tongue) is the largest of the Ynesleaic islands and lies in the Bitter Sea. The Echmer claimed the land as theirs in 1E 709. Unlike it’s sister-island of Slea, the island has always been considered more ‘tame’ and ‘peaceful’ than the other islands that make up the Ynesleaic archipelago. It was the first landmass in the archipelago discovered by the Empire and is thus more ‘imperialized’ than any other island, except for perhaps Pasgaviati. Most foreign settlers live on this island peacefully, rivaling the native Exul in terms of population. Because of the wealth of information concerning this island, please read the timeline chapter to learn more about it’s history.

The island is split into three geological regions: the **Hae’macrin Mountain Range** in the north, the **Opal Coast** to the west and center, and the **Ambient Littoral** to the south and east.

####[Hae'macrin Mountains](http://s5.postimg.org/zctjyn3pz/Yne_Concept_Art_02_Hae_Macrin_Mountains.jpg)
&gt;Figure 2: An ancient Protoechi stronghold high in the Hae'macrin Mountain Range.

The Hae’macrin Mountains is the coldest place on the island, covered in snow and ice. Little vegetation grows in this wasteland and trees are practically nonexistent in the area. Violent creatures tend to live in caves high up in the mountain. Freezing rain, snowfall, and blizzards happen frequently in the region, but the mountains are rich in mineral deposits like iron, steel, solarite, and various gemstones.

####[Opal Coast](http://s5.postimg.org/q7l74s0bb/Yne_Concept_Art_03_Opal_Coast.jpg)
&gt;Figure 3: A group of East Empire Company mercenaries scout out a potential mountain pass in the Coast.

The Opal Coast combines a rolling sandy beach and a grassy prairie together, resulting in an unique environment unlike anywhere else. The region is protected by the frigid weather in the north by a wall of mountains, also protecting it from the creatures found there. The soil here is very good for crops due to the heavy amounts of sunlight and frequent rainfall. Considered the most beautiful area on the island, the wildlife here is mainly insects and prey animals, but a few predators also roam the Opal.

####[Ambient Littoral](http://s5.postimg.org/imi69b5av/Yne_Concept_Art_01_Ambient_Littoral.jpg)
&gt;Figure 4: Tel Sadras – home to the eccentric Telvanni Ralyn Sadras – is a famous yet recent landmark in the Littoral as of the Fourth Era.

The Ambient Littoral is a coastal taiga that thrives on saltwater. Ferns, lily pads, and other swampy plants can be found here. Although the slightly muddy ground isn’t as good for farming like the Opal’s, it’s soil is much more ‘allowing’ of the growing of foreign plants and because of that it has always been the most ‘Tamriel-like’ area in the entire island archipelago. Natives and foreign settlers also use it as a general area for fishing.

###Slea

Lying in the Chaotic Sea across from Yne, Slea (‘Reflection’ in the Echmer tongue) is the second largest island in the Ynesleaic archipelago and lies in the Chaotic Sea. The Echmer claimed the land as theirs in 1E 710. The island’s environments are much more wilder and dangerous than that of its sister-island of Yne, resulting in the hardiness of those that settle it. It is not as imperialized as Yne as well, and has always resisted Imperial doctrine. Because of that it is much more traditionally Echmer even into modern times, although a few Tamrielics do call the island home. Because of the wealth of information concerning this island, please read the timeline chapter to learn more about it’s history.

Slea, like Yne, is also split into three geological regions: **Gtutur’s Arids** in the north, the **Melodic Forest** in the east and west, and **Urroal** that encompasses the entirety of the south.

####[Gtutur's Arids](http://s5.postimg.org/8ev1j5tp3/Slea_Concept_Art_01_Gtutur_s_Arids.jpg)
&gt;Figure 5: A particularly sun-scorched part of the Arids.

Gtutur’s Arids are a vast and hot desert of pure whitish-orange sand, with few oases and vegetation. It is easy to become lost here with the large dunes and rocks jutting out of the ground looking practically the same with almost no landmarks whatsoever. Animals like desert scorpions, harmless jerboa, and giant carnivorous chameleons live in the area. It is also abundant in solarite ore veins like the Hae’macrin Mountains.

####[Melodic Forest](http://s5.postimg.org/4jrnglajb/Slea_Concept_Art_02_Melodic_Forest.jpg)
&gt;Figure 6: Pixies are quite common in the Forest, so adventurers should best be on their guard.

The Melodic Forests is a great expanse of woodland protected from the desert to the north by a natural bulwark of solid rock. The trees here grow very close together, with vines and giant plants (some even being dangerous and capable of devouring travelers) making it almost seem labyrinthine. A towering mountain, once an active volcano, is the main point of interest in the region. Many different types of animals – too many to list here – call the Melodic home.

####[Urroal](http://s5.postimg.org/3rozhe6c7/Slea_Concept_Art_03_Urroal.jpg)
&gt;Figure 7: Barren, bleak, and depressing – only the hardiest of explorers should walk the Urroal.

Urroal is nothing more than a rocky wasteland of constant rain, cool breezes, and perpetual hurricanes. Peine stalk the land and the sky is almost always dark, resulting in a dreary environment. Crops are almost impossible to grow in the area, although some vegetation fights to exist in the region.

###Elysia

Established as an Echmer territory in 1E 735 and named after Hagreger the Calm’s beloved, **Elysia** is a southeastern island in the Chaotic Sea. Noted for its beauty, the Echmer seem to mostly use it as a resort for their workers due to its relaxing atmosphere.

According to hieroglyphics analyzed from Ynesleaic Men temple ruins seem to state that the island was the capital of their civilization before it died out before the end of the Merethic Era. Exul researchers have since excavated and studied the architecture left behind immensely, seeking to uncover more secrets about the Ynesleaic Men that called the archipelago their home before the Dwemer and Hyu-Ket arrived and the Echmer came into existence.

After it’s incorporation into the growing Echmer realm a great deal of Exul and Hyu-Ket traveled there to live. Because of its isolation from the Council of Dull Chimes, the Elemental Sodality and its Mustikos’arcere, and the strange Echmer of Morubixaba Elysia stays largely untouched from the events of those islands. The most eventful thing that has ever happened to the isle was it being captured by the Kamal in the early Third Era, which adds testimony to it being perhaps the most peaceful place in the Ynesleaic archipelago. 

Unlike the other islands Elysia doesn’t have different regions, instead being tropical throughout its entire landscape. Palm trees grow in abundance and peaceful animals dot the countryside. However giant snakes, Bruorl, and Peine also make their home here, resulting in the islanders having to be careful when wandering the countryside.

###Pasgaviati

The large island of **Pasgaviati** is to the northwest of Yne, right on the edge of Echmer territory in the middle of the Bitter Sea. It was officially discovered in 1E 738 by Echmer explorers, but they were driven away by the horrifying amount of Peine beasts that called the island home. During the Merethic Era the island seemed to be a major holding of the Ynesleaic Men, with their ancient temples and ruins being found here in abundance. It is believed that the island was much more temperate in those times as well, for the Ynesleaic Men built their buildings out of the carapaces of now extinct giant insects that were hardened to withstand the test of time.

Eventually the Ynesleaic Men went extinct and the Peine soon came to claim the island as a breeding ground. Some scholars believe that the men were wiped out by these migrations, which happened at a pace so slow that the men didn’t even realize that their island was being overrun by monsters. For the next few centuries it would remain abandoned, allowing the monster population to grow well into the thousands.

Magus-Premier Aarōn destroyed the entire Peine population on the island when he came to establish his magic academy of Mustikos’arcere in 1E 1045. Since then the island has remained mostly isolated, although Nekros the Lord of the Rotting Darkness waged war with the Elemental Sodality on it in 2E 261. In the Third Era the island was transformed into a Legionary outpost during Uriel V’s invasion of Akavir, but was abandoned after Yneslea seceded from the Empire in the Fourth Era. Because of its location so far north the climate of Pasgaviati is similar to the clime of the Hae’macrin Mountain Range on Yne, and is separated into three regions –  the **Verglas Lowlands** in the north, the **Black Mountains** in the center, and the **Fro’sai Highlands** in the south.

####[Verglas Lowlands](http://s5.postimg.org/glifwzudz/Pasgaviati_Concept_Art_01_Verglas_Lowlands.jpg)
&gt;Figure 8: A traveler overlooks the White Expanse beneath a lonely tree.

The Verglas Lowlands is a tundra dotted with sparse vegetation and home to caves that were once inhabited by Peine before Aarōn Peine-Killer came and eradicated the creatures permanently from the island. Since then the caverns have become dens for the creatures once hunted by the Peine, like snow bears and frost trolls. Ynesleaic Men ruins are all over the place in this region, joining themselves in elaborate ways with the ice and rock before becoming fewer in number as one goes farther north.

####[Black](http://s5.postimg.org/exnvw35w7/Pasgaviati_Concept_Art_02_Black_Mountains.jpg) [Mountains](http://s5.postimg.org/s33e26zrr/Pasgaviati_Concept_Art_03_Black_Mountains.jpg)
&gt;Figure 9: Within The Edge of the Ice-Rivers.
&gt;
&gt;Figure 10: An entrance to a black diamond mine carved directly into a crossroads, an old Echmer tradition.

Separating the north and south regions is the Black Mountain Range, named so due to its abundance of black diamonds the Echmer use to forge jewelry and armor. In ancient times the Black Mountains were once active volcanoes, now dormant for more than a few millennia. Long-since dried out foyadas have become filled with frozen water, resulting in long-stretches of “ice-rivers” that weave throughout the landscape.

####[Fro'sai Highlands](http://s5.postimg.org/4z2x9lwgn/Pasgaviati_Concept_Art_04_Fro_sai_Highlands.jpg)
&gt;Figure 11: The steam from the hot springs reacting to the cold air can be disorienting.

The south of the island gives away to the slightly more temperate Fro’sai Highlands, which is considered the most hospitable region. Trees and other vegetation grow are in abundance here, resulting in much more wildlife. Most Echmer Exul villages, along with the magical academy of Mustikos’arcere, can be found here.

###[Morubixaba](http://s5.postimg.org/cr2kll02f/Morubixaba_Concept_Art_00.jpg)
&gt;Figure 12: The Moru architecture clearly shows several traits with Protoechi architecture, yet goes for a more natural, naturistic appearance.

Strange and isolated, the island of **Morubixaba** to the semi-northeast of Slea was incorporated into the Echmeri realms in 1E 753 when Neglectful Acceptance explorers discovered it by accident.

The island is inhabited by an unique Echmeri tribal culture different than the Dweech and Exul cultures that already exist, instead focusing on customs the Echmer haven’t followed since the times of the Protoechi. Many scholars and archaeologists discovered that there was massive cave-in underneath the island that sealed it off from the rest of the Dweech, resulting in the theory that the Echmer on the island are descended from Protoechi that were separated from the rest of the race while performing tasks for the Dwemer. They have a unique language that shares some ties to the modern Echmer language of Echi, but it is vastly different. Morubixaba is also home to an unique tribe of Hyu-Ket that calls themselves the “Hadoridol” that also have customs different to that of the rest of their race. Both groups coexist peacefully on the island. Dweech and Exul Echmer have been able to teach the natives their tongue and are very protective over the small community.

HRAHNDEYL seems to have traveled to the island sometime during his wanderings as a mortal, as the “Moru-Echmer” (as the rest of the Bat Elven population kindly calls them) remember him. They call him Moxoeluxarxe and teach that he was a former slave trader that received a vision from the Hadoridol Ancestor-god Hador (possibly the Hyu-Ketic Spirit-Chief) telling him that if he freed the slaves he would be set on the path of Moxoe (Enlightenment). So he did and became an ally of the Hadoridol. Together with King Hador Gildol Hadol "the Forest Lord" Moxoeluxarxe united Morubixaba before leaving the island for good. As of 4E 200 the island is ruled by Underqueen Vvaravvethri and Overking Hador Gildol Hadol XVIII.

Like Elysia and Pasgaviati, Morubixaba is home to ancient Ynesleaic Men ruins that dot its environment, an unique fusion of a jungle, swamp, and rain forest. Giant insects, arachnids, and reptiles can be found in abundance here, as well as giant plants.

###Hrahn's Isles

The last Echmer territory is the three island chain of **Hrahn’s Isles**, which was incorporated in 1E 775. North of both Yne and Slea and in area where the Channel of Tru’Gitet meets, it is considerably isolated and largely unsettled by both the Echmer, Hyu-Ket, and Tamrielic colonists.

The islands are famous for being the refuge of mortal Hrahndeyl before he apotheosized into HRAHNDEYL before the whole of the Echmer people. Since then it has been left mostly alone by the rest of the bat elven race. The landscape here is very temperate due to the meeting Bitter and Chaotic Seas, consisting of rolling dirt hills and forests. It contains much of the wildlife that can be found on the main islands of Yne and Slea.

###Other Islands

These islands are only mentioned here due to recent events involving them at the time of this publication; otherwise they would have been omitted from the reading in major detail.

####The Maelstrom

The island known as the **Maelstrom** (or just simply the **Strom**) lies in the southern reaches of the Chaotic Sea, past Elysia and within the more sweltering expanses of water. It has been a rather dark stain in Echmer history, and was discovered and subsequently settled by their Protoechi ancestors during the First Era. The Neglectful Acceptance and the Confined Abyss conjointly used the entirety of the island as a massive research center…until something went disturbingly wrong and the many facilities became inaccessible to the rescue teams by strange magicks. The islands’ trapped inhabitants eventually stop communicating with the rescuers, and began to disappear one by one. Eventually the Echmer redrew from the island and its frightening green-misted sky, but recent events in the Fourth Era – a large ship of both Council of Dull Chimes and East Empire Company prisoners taking control of their vessel and crashing on the island – have resulted in the Echmer government becoming alarmed at the notion of the criminals discovering a way to enter the facilities located there, preserved due to magical sealing, and likewise strengthening their protection at home.

####The Padomaic Rim

The **Padomaic Rim** (also known by the names the **Dragon’s Spine**, **Diamond Shard**, **Havok**, the **Rim**, and the **Divide**) is unique in that it is technically not a holding of the Echmer by both area (being technically a part of the Esrionet stretch) and governmental control (it being under the command of the Esri and the Mede Dynasty), but is embroiled in their plans all the same. The Bat Elves discovered the Rim in the early Third Era shortly after they discovered and began trading with Esrionet; seeing the crescent-shaped island as a natural outpost and bulwark towards any potential Kamal invasion force, they immediately wanted to seize it…only to discover the Esri considered it part of their realm. Viewing this a perfectly rational yet unfortunate event, the Echmer redrew back to their islands but attempted for many years to negotiate the Rim’s incorporation into the Ynesleaic archipelago without success (and ultimately stopping when the Empire gained control of Esrionet). However, the Echmer military have finally gained admittance to walk the Rim due to Esrionet recuperating from the devastating blow the Akaviri delivered to them just a few years previous, and now maintain outposts in what they fear may be an upcoming invasion. Telling their Council back home to begin regulating naval travel to and from Yneslea, it is unknown how the warriors will act now that one of their greatest wants is now in their grasp.

##[To Hear Nirn's Heartbeat: The Dweech](http://s5.postimg.org/a3qcm0593/Dweech_Concept_Art_01.jpg)
&gt;Figure 13: An Echmer Dragomer was kind enough to loan this sketch from his journal.

Connecting the entire archipelago by way of vast underground caverns and chasms, the **Dweech** (which translates into ‘**Deep Echoes**’ in the native language of the Echmer) isn’t just the ancestral cradle of Echmer civilization, but also the womb from which their entire race was birthed. Although the Bat Elves have lived within it for millennia it has yet to be fully explored, giving it an air of mystery that enchants both natives and foreigners alike.

In ancient times the Noraken Clan of Dwemer built most of their research facilities, mines, and cities inside the Dweech. Many of these constructions still stand today, outlasting their creators and standing as undeniable testimony into the feats of Dwarven engineering. When the Echmer began to establish more complex civilizations some of these cities were dismantled and reversed-engineered by the bat elves to make room for their dynamic Urbs, or cities in their own tongue. Protoechi constructions were abandoned but not destroyed, resulting in the beautiful yet strange complexes built by their ancestors to continue to surround the Echmer that choose to reside underground.

Although perpetually dark, naturally occurring luminescent sun crystals along with Ge Lamps (fixed glowing balls of energy) and traditional torches light both the settled and unsettled areas of the Dweech, forming boundaries that warn children and young adults from straying to far from the Urbs. Naturally occurring underground freshwater rivers and lakes run unbridled, teeming with fish and other water creatures. Enormous fungi, lichen, and moss of different colors grow everywhere and have been integrated almost artistically into Urbs. The Dweech is also host to unique forms of animal life that can’t be found anywhere on the surface (largely insects, arachnids, and mammals). When taking all of the above into consideration, it is not odd to find foreigners of all walks of life describing the Dweech as an entirely different land altogether from the archipelago in general.

##Of Dead Moons: Chiroptera

Lost but not forgotten, the Echmeri moon colony known as **Chiroptera** was once located on the surface of Masser, the largest of Nirn’s two moons. Similar to the old Empire lunar provinces (like Tatterdemalion), it has lost communication with the Echmeri government and its exact status as of this writing is quite unknown.

The moon colony was founded with the purpose of being a vast city of innovation for the Echmer, allowing them to study the flesh divinities of Lorkhan as well as the Planes of Oblivion, the Void, and (although it was not a top priority) Aetherius to their leisure. The grand Urb of Erom’sheolsaz was built as the capital of the lunar realm, but operated outside the jurisdiction of the Council of Dull Chimes, instead being ran by the Auriators that built it. For this reason the Troika and the High Hypothesians of the Penta Wards established ‘embassies’ of sorts in Erom’sheolsaz.

With acoustineers, elementalists, and other fascinating individuals in Chiroptera the moon colony was able to create interesting, yet disturbing inventions. The Council of Dull Chimes were often troubled with the reports the auriators sent back to the Ynesleaic archipelago during the Second Era, with several of the Council members viewing the proposed devices as abominations. This resulted in friction between the two for sometime before the colony disappeared from Masser in 2E 896.

Contact with the colony wouldn’t happen again until 4E 98, when the moons disappeared from the sky (which the Bat Elves themselves view as highly cynical). But when the moons reappeared and the Echmer traveled to Masser to locate their Lunar Urb there was no trace of it. Erom’sheolsaz had vanished – again.

Some Echmer individuals hope that they will be able to relocate their lunar city at some point in the future, but optimism is low amongst the race concerning Chiroptera and most believe it is lost for good with no possibility of returning.
______________________________________________________

**Next Volume**: *Yneslea Through The Ages – An Accurate Timeline*
