---
title: "Hellish Incantations"
reddit: 2ujn01
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2015-02-02T19:02:31Z
---

**By: The Transparent One**

*Note: A book written in Daedric and loosely translated into the common Tamrielic. The ink appears to be mortal blood, and the paper burned mortal skin. Some phrases are not translatable, either forming incomprehensible words or blotched over. The sentences themselves seem to flow constantly across the pages, making the book difficult to read. Below are the invocations that can be currently read without difficulty.*
______________________________________________________

#Invocation One: The Reaper of the Soul Cairn
To summon the Reaper, you must first kill and collect the souls of fifty mortals within black soul gems. The mortals must be personally killed by your own hand our the summoning ritual will result in your own grisly death. After the victims are killed, cut out their hearts and collect the blood from them within a skull. After these ingredients are collected, you must then descend into a pitch black cave and plant the soul gems in place. Twenty-five are arrayed in a diamond shape on the ground and the other twenty-five must be placed in the shape of a circle on the ceiling.

Once this is finished, the you must then mix void salts and black soul gem powder with the collected heart blood within the skull. Once the mixture has taken on the appearance of a painful black, it must be placed on a pillar in the center of the diamond. Lastly, you must drink the mixture (this act binds the Reaper to the Conjurer’s will) and then bow at the base of the pillar. If using the proper incantations, the Reaper (a being created from the fusion of a thousand trapped souls) will then be summoned to Mundus to do your bidding for an entire mortal day.

#Invocation Thirteen: Crimson Wraith of Coldharbour
To summon the Crimson Wraith, you must first hunt down four Dremora and rip out their hearts, which is no simple task. The following task is even more difficult in nature; in order to bring forth the Crimson Wraith, it must be done to destroy a settlement in its entirety. Otherwise, the ritual will not work.

Once the target of your damnation is determined, you must then set up the ritual spot a few yards outside the village. Create a square barrier by driving four wooden stakes into the ground eight feet apart and impale the four Dremora hearts on each of the stakes. Letting the blood drip on the ground, connect the stakes together by sprinkling vampire dust in a X shape between them. Then slice one of your wrists and let the blood drip into the center of the X.  For the final part, set the vampire dust, blood, and the hearts on fire. Mystical red smoke will flare within the square barrier, and the Crimson Wraith will be summoned from the waters of Oblivion to do your bidding for three hours.

#Invocation Ninety-One: Goroflox the Unholy of the Scuttling Void
To summon Goroflox the Unholy, you must be outside during the dark and surrounded by some form of water. Gather an ivory bowl of salt water and mix it with three nightshade petals, crushed mandrake root, void salts, and the most rare ingredient, essence of Hist sap. Once these are all combined together, one must poor the mixture into the body of a deceased person, and then lay that personal gently in the water.

The rest of this ritual is very simple. You must then wait ten minutes while the body festers underwater. After this is done, perform the incantations. Goroflox will consume the dead body as he manifests on Mundus. However, do not try to greet him. Only after lighting a candle must you then try to contact the spirit. After that, he is your servant for one hour.

#Invocation Two-Hundred-And-One: Noriplasm of the Pits
To summon Noriplasm, you must first sacrifice one of your hands for the ritual. After this is done you must place the severed limb in a deep hole. The next step of the summoning involves draining the blood from a mortal dying of disease, and filling the hole with it. Once this is done, leave the blood hole alone for nine days.

After the nine days are up, return to the hole and drink from it. When this act is over, you must then set the pit on fire. As the smoke billows, the hole will become bottomless and Noriplasm will climb out of it to do your bidding until he is destroyed in combat.
