---
title: "The House of Troubles' role in the New Temple"
reddit: 2v10ta
author: OldResdayn
date: 2015-02-06T21:41:16Z
---

(Please bear with me, this is my first piece of Apocrypha ;))


+ Fedrura Gilvani, Temple Initiate, Blacklight:

"After our three holy Daedra reclaimed their proper position, some praised the House of Trouble for their refusal to bend to the ways of ALMSIVI. They are no longer banned among public, at least not here, but in other areas they are still outlawed. Some have even taken it to call them "The House of Testing" as if to lessen their troublesome (pun intended) status. Legal or not, many of them are not kindly looked upon by the more conservative population. I can't really claim to like it either. Most of them are quite creepy, but they are quite "watered down" versions of their predecessors, the ones that lived in abandoned ruins and kidnapped children, if you believe the legends. The First Corner, Malacath, is basically just worshipped by orcs, a few Dunmer, but that's rare. Not too bad, mostly prancing around with their talk of honour and oaths. The Second Corner, Mehrunes Dagon, isn't exactly the most popular of them. Dunmer that still remember the Oblivion Crisis were quite upset by it. I shudder to think if they somehow would bring back Dagon, though they claim that they venerate the "nicer" aspects of him, Liberty and Ambition and all that, rather than the Destruction that the Mythic Dawn reveled in. I don't know if I'm going to believe in that. The third Corner is Sheogorath. Half of the worshippers were either exiled or killed because of their insanity. The ones left are mostly musicians and poets, paying their respects to him for creativity. Why Dibella didn't suit them good enough is beyond me. The worship of the fourth Corner, Molag Bal, is technically legal, but every cultist has been outlawed for various offenses. I just hope that they will outlaw them again, all of them, no good can come from those spirits."

+ Dram Vilas, Priest, Raven Rock:

"Yes, the House of Testing. The Old Temple outlawed them because they saw the hypocrisy of the ALMSIVI shine through their golden exteriors, but now, we have welcomed our brothers back into our cities. We have no reason to fear them, they contribute to the settling of our little colony, prosperous Raven Rock, as much as the next mer. What would society be without oaths? Without ambition? How can you live without creativity? How can you rule without domination? The removal of these spheres marked the doom of the False Tribunal."

+ Mog gro-Grul, Guard, Balmora:

"I worship Malacath. The Dunmer know him as the first Corner. It doesn't really matter. Guess it's better than to be shunned or banned as my grandpa and his grandpa were." 

-*How does Malacath's position as God of Outcasts conflict with the Dunmeri importance of family and clans*?

"Malacath is our god, and we have been outcasts for a very long time, hence the name, God of Outcasts. But family is important to us too. Very important. Love mum. Bet the Dunmer also like their mums. Everyone loves their mum."

+ Lanis Salvendu, Dresi Redneck, Tear:

"House of Troubles? Worship? Only faithless northerners would do such a thing. Faithless to proper Velothi culture. Maybe after we've teached those filthy scalebacks the meaning of revenge, why not pay those traitors a visit, show 'em what the Reclamations's all about. House of Troubles, now that's heresy. You know what happened all those years ago. With the gates, and the Daedra. That's what's gonna happen if we let those cultists in charge. And those First Corners, consortin' with greenpigs and worse. But we's gonna be ready for 'em, an' they'll taste the full power of **ALM... THE RECLAMATIONS**!"

