---
title: "Song of the “Return” Volume 3"
reddit: 2v170s
author: Mangogrits
date: 2015-02-06T22:31:25Z
---

Many thanks to /u/ddaybones for helping me with the new shout and meditation.

Paarthurnax flew over the chilling skies of Atmora, observing the land beneath him. It had been eras since he and his kin had left this place and seeing it again, even frozen as it was, was surreal. The grey dragon pondered the future of the dov, and of the fate the Dragonborn was weaving for themselves. He was surprised at the Dovahkiin's initiative, bringing the remaining dragons to Atmorasewuth and braving these vast expanses of snow and ice, and for what? The Dragonborn seemed to know what it was that they were seeking.

Another dov that had arrived on the shores with Paarthurnax was flying ahead of him in a graceful manner. As a gesture of peace, Paarthurnax bellowed: “*LOK VAH KOOR*!” A few seconds later, the other dov returned the gesture, a measure of respect for the “old one” as they called him, never to his face of course. Odd though, the thu’um of two dragons wasn’t able to clear the veil that blocked the sun from Atmora. Many of the clouds would scatter at the sound of this shout, but never would it fully drive away the unwavering shroud.

In the midst of his musings, Paarthurnax looked down at the ground below him to see something very strange. Next to the white of the snow and blue of the ice, was a small swath of what looked like green. Thinking this to be a trick of the eye, he swooped down to get a closer look.

As the grey dragon rode the currents downward, he could better make out what it was. A swath of changed land, with trees and a sprawling meadow. This could only be done by one force, and he went to greet it. Landing in the middle of the warm grasses, he eyed the Dragonborn kneeling on the ground in front of him, as if they were meditating.

“*Perhaps you were looking for my attention Dovahkiin? You have it. Have you called for my Aak, my guidance*?” Paarthurnax asked.

Looking up at him for the first time the Dragonborn said: “Yes, I have mentor. I have done as I told you I would. I have found a new Word of Power in the barrow you see just behind me.”

Paarthurnax looked at the sunken hole in the ground behind the oasis of green, and back at the Dragonborn. “*This is a feat Dovahkiin. The Rotmulaags here are old, even the heirs of Ysgramor began to forget them as time wore on. What word is it that you have learned*?”

“It is called Evgir.”

"*It is“Season” in your tongue, a word that the Bron, Nords, still remember to this day, though one of the few. This thu’um is akin to “Lok” and “Strun.” Both allow you to manipulate the skies, however they do not grant you full control. This thu’um will. As you grow in your knowledge of it you will be able to do more than clear the clouds or summon a storm. With true mastery of this thu’um you shall be able to assert your dominance through the weather itself. Recall Dovahkiin, the skies of Nirn are the domain of Kaan, Kyne, strive not to dominate over her, but to work through her to exercise your knowledge. Honor her and she will requite. The thu’um will allow you to summon snow to where it has never fallen, calm the wind where it howls, bring rain to the deserts. You are limited only by your Hahdrim Dovahkiin, once you locate the remaining Rotmulaags*."

“This is a much more powerful Shout than I would have imagined. Now to find the other two Words, I doubt they will prove as easy to locate.”

“*It may be more of a trial than you think, Dovahkiin. Certainly these Rotmulaags would be hidden well. And as I’ve said before, these lands are no longer meant for your kind*.”

“That just makes things more interesting Paarthurnax.” Rising from the soft grass, the Dragonborn nodded. “I will see you next when the second word is in my possession. Thank you for your wisdom.”

“*A question before you go Dovahkiin. To learn the other Rotmulaags, you devoured the knowledge from another dov. How do you plan to acquire the understanding now*?”

The Dragonborn stared at him long and hard. “I will find a way, I always do.” Slowly, turning north, they headed away from the meadow and into the unforgiving cold of Atmora.
