---
title: "Ruminations on the Sundering of Celestials"
reddit: 2x4d0w
author: patchgrabber
date: 2015-02-25T15:48:37Z
---

By Vlandra Elmlock

I have spent the greater part of my time in Craglorn studying with this “Scaled Court” that has arisen. Truthfully it has intrigued many to make the journey because of their purported association with the disappearance of the constellations. I have explained in earlier writings the details of my infiltration which began as an assessment of Yokudan texts and culminated in my stumbling onto the corpse of a Scaled Court operative so I will not repeat myself here for the sake of brevity. Rather I will endeavor to understand the machinations of this Cult of which I am now a part, to better equip those who have a chance to undo what has been done.

Of greatest import obviously, is the sundering of the constellations. It is known that the Nedes revered, possibly even worshipped the constellations and/or their makers much like their Yokudan counterparts. Travelers always look to the stars to guide them, yet this Scaled Court seems to abhor them. I have noticed during my understudy of the Regent their hatred, and by all accounts they have succeeded at least in the first phase of their plans as the Guardian constellations are nowhere to be seen. I was fortunate enough to find a scrap of parchment from one of the Regent’s books which I was able to take before his return.

***

*The worlds have blended, the barriers broken.*

*The night’s hue is plain, the hunger has spoken.*

*A wandering spirit lost in heavens, embrace.*

*The Defenders un-done, the shaped will have face.*

*Woe-to-be for the Suns of Ge,*

*When darkness falls for eternity.*

***

What a peculiar passage. I have spoken to Christophe about this, yet alas we are not joined in our interpretation. He believes it to be propaganda, yet I maintain that it is part of some dark ritual as it was found near the other ritual tomes albeit not explicitly in one. I have tried to parse the meaning of some phrases, and shall do my best to convey the meaning I perceive.

There are obvious references to the Star Orphans; the explicit mentioning of the Ge, along with the reference to colour undoubtedly point to them, as they have associations with such things. But what do the Orphans have to do with the current turmoil in Craglorn? Christophe would have me believe that it is the influence of the Daedra, manipulating events to sew discord perhaps at the behest of Meridia (due to her association with the Ge). This indeed is known to happen when dealing with Princes, but I am still not convinced. Merid is not a typical Daedra, although Christophe’s notion that She is angry with the Ge over past indiscretions is compelling.

Along with the references to Orphans is the influence of the Serpent. The hungry-one without a home. While the Scaled Court has touted their association with the Serpent, it has been unclear how they have managed to influence the constellations thus. It may have something to do with the current Planemeld, but how can any mortal hope to influence an et’Ada in Aetherius? While the Yokudans may have worshipped them, their worship is not necessary for the Ge as it is for the Aedra. Yet one cannot deny the influence the constellations have on residents of Mundus, I must wonder if such a relationship can work in reverse. Souls that enter Aetherius demonstrate that these stars can function as gateways of a sort, possibly as a kind of switch or coin that may be flipped to permit entry or to release creatia. But suppose one flips a coin enough times, if the conditions are right, suppose the coin lands on its edge?

We know that the Aedra gave of themselves to create this world, and that the Ge left before all was finished. But they were here. And they did participate, if only for a short while before their divinity would be sacrificed. Perhaps their echoes remain, a loose hold on Mundus reinforced by the creatia pouring out of the constellations influencing the lives of men and mer. Maybe the Ge can be influenced themselves by mortals as a consequence of their limited involvement in Creation. What would it take to break the veil, to sunder these Celestial spirits from Aetherius and close the gateways that they themselves made? Perhaps we need look no further than the Serpent itself, for what would be a better counterpoint to a star than an un-star? A focus would be needed, possibly the Mundus stones themselves along with a place of power constructed by the Nedes? Undoubtedly sacrifice would be required to taint the Apex Stones, for the network of Mundus stones seem to all be tied to them somehow. Combine these with the chaotic nature of this Planemeld and it is quite possible that we are on the edge, but I digress.

I’ve noticed a Nord woman who doesn’t quite belong, much like myself. She seems like a nice girl, and whereas I am in too deep to escape, perhaps she can. I should convince her to warn others of this Cult and the schemes they have for Nirn. It may be too late for me, but she could make it out alive.

Supplementary materials:

[On the Walkabout](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1wehbi/on_the_walkabout/)

[Blending the Spectral Eigenfrequencies: the Magne-Ge and (D)Aedra](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1wabpr/blending_the_spectral_eigenfrequencies_the/)

[Magne-Ge Pantheon](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/magne-ge-pantheon)

[Mortals And Our Special Relationship With The Stars](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1zje13/mortals_and_our_special_relationship_with_the/)

[Mysteries of the Mundus Stones](http://uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Mysteries_of_the_Mundus_Stones)

