---
title: "A Hope In The Starry Heart(Choose Your Own Adventure)"
reddit: 2y1mp6
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2015-03-05T18:09:02Z
---

**Prologue (Character Creation Part 1)**

It is a summer night in Cyrodiil, and the air is hot with intrigue. Or at least you think so, in your candlelit manor just outside of the Imperial City. You stand atop the polished marble floors and look out the massive stain glass window to observe the withering vineyards outside. The past year has been more arid than most, a sign of the troubled times you know you are living in. If the rumors you heard are true, those times are about to get much worse.

The sudden clap of thunder and the torrent of rain that follows doesn’t do anything to dispel that feeling. You take out the ebony knife you habitually carry around everywhere and examine it. One cannot be too careful these days, especially with Thalmor agents on every corner. For all you know there could be one inside your very household, waiting to strike you down. However, right now you have bigger concerns to worry about. Such as whether your suspicions are true.

The huge, expensive wooden doors dividing this room from the outer corridor burst open to reveal a drenched and panting Bosmer servant, note: spy. He struggles to stand at attention while you slowly turn your imperious gaze in his direction.

“Report.”, you say.

“It’s true, sir. He’s dead.”

You are unable to stop the grimace that spreads across your face. So the rumors are true. Titus Mede II is dead, and he hasn’t any heirs to replace him.

“Is there anything else?”, you ask.

“Nothing I can verify. There are rumors that it is the Dark Brotherhood’s doing, but no one knows for sure.”

Something in you doubts that is the case. This entire situation reeks of Thalmor interference. Even if The Dark Brotherhood did the deed, the Thalmor were probably behind it. You will have to act quickly if you want to contain the situation. The High Chancellor will likely call a meeting of the Elder Council soon, one you will have to attend. In the meantime, there is other business to take care of.

“Leave me. Tell the servants to provide you with whatever provisions you require. I will contact you in the usual manner when the time comes.”

He simply nods and leaves, quietly closing the door behind him.

You, however, turn to the ornate mirror hanging from a nearby wall to examine your reflection. You are Constantine Milan IV, Member of The Elder Council, and you are:

**Ethnicity**

[ ] Colovian (Private Army bonus)

[ ] Nibenese (Major shareholder in East Empire Company) 

**Family Origins**

[ ] Ancient and Noble Family- You have a long lineage and your family prides itself for being able to trace its roots back to the Second Era. As such, you inherited your seat on the Elder Council from your wealthy father. (Connections to old money and older families.)

[ ] Young Upstart- Your family is wealthy, but relatively new. Four generations is a very short span of time compared to some of the families that have seats on the Elder Council. However, the Milan family has been very motivated, and as a result your father was able to buy a seat on the Council for you before he died. (Connections with other upstarts such as yourself in the government and the private sector.)

[**To be Continued...**](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2y3b6k/a_hope_in_the_starry_heartchoose_your_own/)
