---
title: "A Hope in The Starry Heart(Choose Your Own Adventure) Part 2"
reddit: 2y3b6k
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2015-03-06T01:50:10Z
---

*Previously on A Hope in the Starry Heart*

The Ruby Thrown sits empty once more. Emperor Titus Mede II is dead, and Cyrodiil is in crisis. You are Constantine Milan IV, esteemed member of the Elder Council, and the burden of guiding the Empire to greatness falls on your shoulders once more. 
------------

You come from an ancient and noble family, famed for its bloodline that can be traced back to the days of Reman and the Dragonguard. Thin lips and mildly slanted eyes lend credence to your family's claim of having Akaviri blood. 

Your family was a vital element in establishing the first East Empire Company, and through the generations has managed to maintain its influence in the company, as well as its profits. The vast wealth of your family is matched only by a few others, including the former Emperor.

But money isn't the only thing that matters in life. Religion has its place as well. Your father was a devout follower of Zenithar, but you have your own religious tastes. 

**Religion**: Pick one group.

**The Nine Divines** : The Pantheon Alessia forged so long ago. (You may pick one god to have a primary allegiance to. If you pick this option, you may have secondary allegiance to the other eight Divines.)

[ ] Mara- Love is something needed in this arena of a world. You want to preserve that. (Well connected to Mara priesthood, and therefore the young up and coming talent getting married through them.)

[ ] Akatosh-You will worship the god of your ancestors, the god that blessed Alessia, Reman, and Tiber Septim. (Mystery event possible.)

[ ] Stendarr- Seek justice. Love mercy. (On good terms with Vigilants of Stendarr.)

[ ] Kynareth- Nature is something to be cherished. You’ve watched the Thalmor burn too much of it. (Gain more bountiful harvests.)

[ ] Zenithar- The love of money will make you rich. (Increase in trade.)

[ ] Arkay- What is dead is dead, and you think they should stay that way. (Increased effectiveness against undead.)

[ ] Julianos- The logical thing to do with knowledge is worship its patron, in the hope that more will be sent your way. (Become a patron of
scholars, and thus gain access to their brilliant minds.)

[ ] Talos- The Thalmor may try to say otherwise, but there will always be Nine Divines for you. (Increased possibility of religious persecution, but potential mystery option available.)

**The Daedric Princes** : (You may choose only one Daedric Prince to serve. Serving Daedric Princes may have bigger active benefits, but much larger risk than worshipping the Divines. For instance, faithful service may be rewarded with access to Daedric artifacts and resources, but it may also lead to enslavement or similar nasty fates. It is also taboo in Cyrodiil and will attract unwanted attention if you are caught. Sufficient faith may lead to secret events, however.)

[ ] Azura- She is stern but she helps you be your best. (Potential access to Azura’s Star and the gift of prophecy.)

[ ] Boethiah- As a politician living in the 4th Era, you know a thing or two about plots to overthrow rightful authority. You might as well get to know their patron. (Potential access to Goldbrand and the Ebony Mail. Also a possibility of being aided in your plots.)

[ ] Clavicus Vile- A favor for a favor. You’re familiar with the concept. (Potential access to the Mask of Clavicus Vile. Also potential to trade souls for wishes.)

[ ] Hermaeus Mora- Forbidden knowledge tempts you. (Potential access to the Oghma Infinium and Black Books.)

[ ] Hircine- Life is all about the hunt. (Potential for Lycanthropy.)

[ ] Malacath- The scourged hold power that most do not know. (Potential access to Scourge and anti-Daedra powers. Downside is self mutilation.)

[ ] Mehrunes Dagon- He is the Prince of Destruction, but he also is the Prince of Ambition. Maybe you can persuade him to support you. (Potential
access to Mehrunes’ Razor and all of its powers.)

[ ] Mephala- Murder plots are an unfortunate fact of life as a politician in Cyrodiil. Maybe you should build a relationship with their patron. (Potential access to The Ebony Blade. Contacts in the Morag Tong, and sufficient devotion may yield aid when orchestrating murder plots.)

[ ] Meridia- The light of life should be cherished, and the false light should be destroyed. (Potential access to Dawnbreaker. Bonus against undead. Bonus against worshippers of Molag Bal.)

[ ] Molag Bal- Anarchy reigns in Tamriel. A sure cure for that is domination, and Molag Bal knows all about that. (Potential for vampirism. Bonus against followers of Boethiah.)

[ ] Namira- You may act rich, but you secretly loathe the posh society you put up your facade in. (Potential access to Ring of Namira. You also know how to wander around in the streets like a homeless person.)

[ ] Nocturnal- They say politicians are thieves with the law on their side. That happens to be more true than they think. (Potential to become a Nightingale. Potential access to the Gray Cowl, The Skeleton Key, and The Bow of Shadows.)

[ ] Peryite- The world must be kept in balance, a task only possible with the Empire. (Potential access to Spellbreaker and a more intimate knowledge of plagues. You might also learn how to engineer a few yourself.)

[ ] Sanguine- Nothing like topping off a day of intrigue with a bottle of Colovian Brandy. (Possible access to the Sanguine Rose. Also, you will be able to throw killer parties.)

[ ] Sheogorath- Everyone is already insane. You just recognize that. (Potential access to Wabbajack.)

[ ] Vaermina- The nightmares of a possible future plagues you. You must become their nightmare. (Potential access to the Skull of Corruption and Dreamwalking.)

**Alternative Gods And Belief Systems**

(These gods are not widely worshipped the way the Daedra or the Divines are, but their beliefs and powers are just as influential-if not more so. There are perks and benefits of each, most not as risky as Daedra worship but not as risk free as worshipping the Divines.)

[ ] ALMSIVI- Despite their disappearance, you still have faith in the Tribunal. You cannot help but be awed by their once mighty power. Perhaps you can achieve what they once had. (Mystery event possible. You would be well acquainted with the remnants of the Whirling School in Morrowind, and have a full collection of the 36 Lessons of Vivec.)

[ ] Dagoth Ur- Dagoth Ur is long dead, but you’ve heard the stories of the Nerevarine and a part of you wonders if Dagoth’s approach wasn’t such a bad idea. If you had your own version of Corprus, the Thalmor certainly wouldn’t be a problem. (Potential mystery event available. There are rumors that like minded individuals still exist.)

[ ] Dwemeri Atheism- It is a disconcerting problem that you cannot prove the world’s existence without using circular reasoning. Perhaps the gods aren’t real. Perhaps nothing is real, except yourself. ( Have access to Dwemer artifacts and know many famous researchers on the subject. Mystery event possible.)

[ ] Mannimarco- The God of Worms still has power, and he is willing to lend it to those willing to pay the price. You happen to be just such an individual. (Potential access to advanced necromancy powers, persecution from anti-undead factions if caught.)

[ ] The Ideal Masters- Mannimarco isn’t the only necromancer expert out there. Maybe you can strike up a deal with this mysterious cabal of necromantic powers. (Potential access to steady flow of souls.)

[ ] The Hoon Ding- You may be Imperial by blood, but not by heart. Secretly, you have always considered yourself a Redguard and this god in particular caught your eye. (Potential mystery event.)

[ ] Kyne- You may be an Imperial by blood, but not by heart. You have always harbored a deep admiration of Nordic culture. Your colleagues may consider them uncivilized and barbaric, but you consider their warrior culture a unique form of strength. Nothing embodies that more than Kyne. (You have made progress towards learning a Shout. May worship the Nine Divines as well with this option.)

[ ] Sithis- There is no point in life but death. The world is a beating heart waiting for a dagger to plunge it through, and you will be the one holding it. You will murder the world. (Potential for connections to the Dark Brotherhood.)

[ ] The Magna Ge- The shattered stars of Aetherius still hold influence on Nirn. (Potential access to Solar Library and interaction with Magna Ge.)

To be continued...
