---
title: "Defeat of the Dovahkin (Alternate ending leading to a new Dragon Cult)"
reddit: 2yb7ej
author: dguy02
date: 2015-03-08T04:56:53Z
---

(Writings found in the ruins of High Hrothgar near Alduins main roost, known formerly as The Throat of the World, current date 5E 376. Will be logged into the New Order's archives by order of Lesser Dragon Priest Falskren)

4E 203- 20th of Frostfall: I've been training for years, yet the quaintness of Ivarstead is rather inspired. I'm staying at the run-down inn, with a rather large crowd following me. Over the last two years, my tales have been spread across Tamriel, so many come seeking me for guidance. I do seem unreal to the common man, I have created armor off my spirit-kin, and a sword so sharp it slices giants in half. Yet I imply to the travelers that I'm still a humble person, just trying to prevent the return of Alduin. More and more dragons have appeared in the province, so many seek salvation. It's so severe, the Imperials simply left, and the Stormcloaks won their ruthless war by default. I guess the Emperor saw it more agreeable to garrison his men in Cyrodill, since the scaled scourge has been spreading all over Northern Tamriel. I end this log in faith of a worthy battle atop the Throat.

4E 203- 21th of Frostfall: Partway up the mountain, the crowd has now turned into a band of stubborn fans, one keeps shouting, "By Azura!" I told him to stop, but he just became more excited to meet me. Beyond that, the Greybeards have been sending me messages via shouts since yesterday. Many tremble and fear, but I only hear words by now. They have said that Paarthurnax is somewhat ready, but he is unsure of what could happen to the Time Wound once I read the scroll. I asked to College what they new of the topic, so I've learned of the Towers and their Stones. I'm unsure of Snow-Throat's stability, for the scrolls seem to have a rather powerful effect on the Towers themselves. Many prophecies rely on them, and each time, the towers they involved with were "deactivated". Scholars went on and on, but the jist of it is that it could "break time". I need not to tell the others, for their minds are simple and humble, and need not for tales of time and Towers. I need more rest for the trek ahead of me, for it seems uncertain.

4E 203- 23nd of Frostfall: Dragons have been attacking High Hrothgar, I'm writing this as things seem to cool down. None have died, but I hear Ivarstead is being punished for our defiance against the dragons. I can't help them, but I hope my Nord followers will help defend them as they return home. I have need to make haste, but I will leave with the final knowledge given to me by Arngeir. He told me of "floating stones" up at the peak, and Paarthurnax has been roaring in agony. The World-Eater is flying near the peak, shouting down at the world in hatred and sorrow alike. I'll leave my writings in High Hrothgar, in case of my downfall. I must get to the top. I must stop Alduin.

NOTE: The author of this important document is known as the Fallen Dovahkin, or more commonly, Time Breaker. In a seemingly sacred set of events, time itself broke once the Dragonborn re-awoke Snow-Throat, and disappeared in mid-air. Paarthurnax the scorned was slain by Alduin, and Ivarstead was razed. Later on it would be rebuilt as Dovah-Thur. Greater Acolyte Tanum, Order Archiver)
