---
title: "Atmora's Whispers, Part 1: Cursed Sky of Ancient Bitter Shroud"
reddit: 2z3s01
author: Maven_of_Minecraft
date: 2015-03-15T07:25:31Z
---

Dear viewers,

    I best expect that this work will be of value to you, whether via entertainment, discussion, thoughts, or perspective. While I am really quite new regarding Apocrypha, it would be my pleasure to engage these matters. This is the first Part of what I may Plan to be a series. Please enjoy.
----    ----    ----

Muttering upon faintest North-born winds, nobody might truly notice, but upon most worn stone in ancient script, a legend may be found. Recently, Winterhold College and other scholars have unearthed such stone tablet by the Ghost Sea, amidst Ancient Dragon Cult ruins. The details of this discovery have been shrouded in secrecy, as even the date of discovery is unknown except to the head scholar studying (such is the unfortunate situation since the dissolution of the Mages Guild and destabilizing state of Tamriel recently).
    Of all things, after intense research, Children of Skyrim [&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp; Tamriel] may finally be able to better know Nirn's past. Yet one major roadblock in this journey was what was found in original Dovahgolz language. Each Tablet had said ìt's own thing, of which these scholars had been lucky enough to find the rare few that still knew how to transcribe Dragon runes. Rumors abound say few but the Dragonborn really understand such language anymore...
These first pieces say:

"Dovahsebrom, " pogaas tolaak, sahlovik Dovah Drog, krent, wo naram kotin thur. Benix Alduin fron, tarvok ahrk dezmi fus naram ustiid lor do usliik maas. Ahzid bok vod, avok fos Lein Tiid Dez bo, krent vith krosik wah kuz grozein nau krund. Melaat digol Zii kein, sent bruzah tol rok vust Kreh Fen, Imaar.
----

Vothni kuz rigir, kuz naal niivut kiid, fos zuspein bex miiraad do . Skilaan kein fund lot dum, led du ok meyar eylok. jot, dur do grik munax truk nahlii. Lok maar rok lost, "Drogdoiiz" do faan, zok krah yoziir , fundein ahrk suleyk naariv voth do iizus deylok. Norok medaas Dovahkiin tul kiin Dovah, horvutah ko meyar horvutah fiit, nunon Ysmir nuth aal met ko naan krif. Voknau rutkei dukiin, ko veistul miin aax vonun fundein, grik horvutah vust wahl saadom kreh ahrk sahsir. Ahrk waan grik somahus sivaas nok ni krinaan, ven do wah alun zomaar suleyksejun aal nahwan.
----

Kosiir grik Dovah Drog, fah daar ahk strin straag imaaraan ko zok Krah lahvu do Diinaan Feyal.
----
... ... ...

Our great scholars had found a few pieces of ancient Legends that lay upon the shores of Skyrim. First was near Hsarrik Head (between Winterhold &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp; Windhelm), but others would be on to something as well in time.

Each new chance to decipher such texts became highly specialized yet very risky with cut-throat scholarship so prevalent in Tamriel. Not only would the Empire and Imperial institutions want this knowledge, but also the Thalmor &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp; various other political factions.

Among many whom wanted this treasure few were willing to cooperate, until a certain Jarl in Windhelm caught Wind of such rumors regarding "Atmoran Artifacts."

"Skyrim must grow strong again, but to do that Skyrim must know it's roots once more!" said the Jarl. Without hesitation, the Karl of Windhelm sent a Messenger escorted by his finest scouts in order to sponsor these scholars and make a very hard bargain.

While Windhelm sent out their troop, a Khajiit caravan caught word &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp; soon many a hansome-paying traveller would hear of this.

Ìt would not take long for word to reach the other side of Skyrim in Solitude. The Hold and their Jarl had a somewhat rocky History with other holds in Skyrim, but most notoriously with Windhelm. Many Nords through the years saw Solitude as an unorthodox Capital for Skyrim. While ìt had Ports many could envy, few traditional things lasted there without corruption. Solitude had seen a fair share of tyrants, destruction, &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp; indifference to other Holds. Their Jarl, Torryg, while a kindly king, came into power at a troubling time. He was not one for strong-arming rivals, but had suddle ways &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp; was often enough indecisive. Torryg became  agitated that other holds were keeping such important things to themselves. He sent for fliers across the hold for any willing bard or Scholar to look for anything they would think be an Atmoran artifact.

Within two weeks, the party from Windhelm arrived tired in Winterhold to gain audience with their Mages College. They had fought through a fair Share of bandits, beasts, and [mercenary] thugs. Unfortunately for them, ìt was the time of year when blizzards began coming through and no townsfolk were willing to talk to any mages. When they went up toward the College, they were told to wait up to two days. The group decided to get shelter from the many vast empty ruins about Winterhold.

Back in Solitude, only a few days had passed when several Bards reported they found pieces of some ancient Black Stone with at least two distinct scripts etched in. This group brought ìt to the Bards College, where ìt was found to have been written in Dovahgolz.

Back in Winterhold, the Archmage and his Council decided to give an audience to these scouts from Windhelm in the courtyard.

When they entered the College, they were surrounded by mages, but to their surprise they met upon an unsavory figure, Thalmor Agent Ancano, whom almost seemed surprised...

Right as both Parties were going to speak, an emaciated mage half frozen with long blackened fingers sprang up from the Midden, surprising everyone. He would be inaudibly speaking these very words:
--

 '"Dovahsebrom," much twisted, infirm Dragon Lord, broken, whom grew into tyranny. Among Alduin kin, greed and sinister forces grew beyond thought of prior seed[s]. Embittered ages ago, over which World-Time-Fate flows, broken serpent dragon yearning to take chance on throne.
--
During Mythic Spirit wars, dealt shards that he could Bend Will, enslave. Without retract, taken by chasing pacts, which later opened doors of attack[s]. Preserving yet warping would greatly grind, led him devouring his own kind. Ever-consuming, curses of such cruel things being. Sky-terror he became, "Drogdoiiz" of name, coldest bellows blow, unfurling and power-crazed with of icy domain. Fierce alike Dragonborn yet born Dragon, ensnared in own trap bite, only Ysmir slimly may match in any fight. Upon perilous demise, in wicked eyes harm unseen unfurls, such a catch could make convention bend and curl. And if such tragic beast lies unquelled, paths of to ever-terrible realm[s] may dwell.

"Beware such Dragon Lord, for those too close turn enslaved in Coldest army of Frozen Horde[s].'
--

--"Drogdoiiz" (WWIIBeast, Chap. 10)
....
Inspiration:

WWIIbeast1945. Elder Scrolls: Voyage to Atmora. N.p.: n.p., 2012.
   Elder Scrolls: Voyage to Atmora Chapter 1: Aan Zoor  
   Sizaan: A Legend Lost, an Elder Scroll Series Fanfic | 
   FanFiction. FanFiction.net, 3 Aug. 2012. Web. 15 Mar. 
   2015. &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;https://www.fanfiction.net/s/8388331/1/Elder-
Scrolls-Voyage-to-Atmora&gt;. 12 Chapter Fan Fiction surrounding "The Elder Scrolls" series by Bethesda Game Studios ( a Zenimax company).
