---
title: "On Nibenese Tattoos: History and Methods"
reddit: 310sqa
author: Vermax
date: 2015-04-01T05:24:57Z
---

Report written by Explorer and Amateur Historian Alain Roddard for the library of his righteousness King Joile II Gardner, 2E512

It is common knowledge among the learned men of Wayrest that the customs and fashion of the Nibenese are as diverse and apparent as the flora of the great jungle within which they live. Among these mannerisms is the art of tattooing, a practice ubiquitous throughout the entirety of Nibenay that managed to pique my interests during my recent travels to Cyrodiil. Contained in the following brief report are some of my findings on the tradition of Nibenese tattooing, specifically concerning its Akaviri origins and the methodology employed by a native body-painter in Bravil.

Much like the dragon banners that dot the cities and towns of Nibenay, the tradition of tattooing one's body hails from the Tsaesci of Akavir. Apparently it was common for Akaviri soldiers to bear tattoos marking their battalions as both a symbol of loyalty to one's commander and brothers-in-arms, as well as enabling the immediate identification of deserters; Reman was quick to implement a similar system in his own Legions after viewing first-hand the willingness of the snake-men to fight to the death in battle. These military methods, like other Tsaesci traditions, diffused into and were warped by the Nibenese; the practicality of Tsaesci military theory was soon replaced by the vibrant frivolity of Nibenese religion as tattooing was transformed from an art of war into yet another aspect of cult-worship. Now one may find the golden coils of the Smiling Potentate, the headless body depicting Emperor Zero, or the visage of Marukh the Ape on the faces and bodies of Niben-men in just about every water-side dwelling from Topal Bay to Lake Rumare. 

As I learned more of the tattooing customs of the Nibenese I became compelled to witness a tattooing first-hand. I managed to establish contact with a native Body-Painter by the name of Tienius Faciunus, and after making acquaintances outside of his Bravil shop he agreed to a demonstration of his craft. Faciunus first doused an area of skin with leek juice in order to lessen the chances of potential ailments. Then, using a fine-tipped dagger known as a "Dragon's Tooth," Faciunus proceeded to prick the skin in the shape of the desired design--always deep enough to draw blood--before rubbing the irritated skin with inks of varying colors. Upon inquiring about the contents of the inks, Faciunus revealed that each ink was produced from combinations of ground-up plant matter, tree bark and corroded metal, though he refused to reveal the exact formula for any color out of fear that I may reveal his secrets to competitors. 

I hope that His Majesty finds satisfaction with this report.

Alain Roddard
