---
title: "The Song of the Dragon Priests"
reddit: 319u9h
author: WarlordOfMaltise
date: 2015-04-03T03:42:28Z
---

*This is just a stab at a song. It has a weird rhythm, pretty fast as compared to other songs in Skyrim. Before you guys murder me, this was also created using the Dovahzul translator to get DP names.*

&gt;A Nordic Song, recovered from the Pelagius Wing of the Blue Palace. Given to the College of Winterhold, 4E 36


In Nord cities of old

Where men dare not tread

Buried deep in the cold

Dragon Priests! Lords, undead!



Krosis, Lord of Sorrow!

Fear of him makes foes weak!

Where the winds do blow 

High on his peak!



Otar, the Mad!

Rangvald's Nordic Chieftain

Fell by the armour clad

Saerek and Torsten!



Rahgot, Lord of Anger!

Last of the Priests

When hunted by the Strider

His cult died on their knees!



Hevnoraak, the Brutal!

In his tomb of Valthume

His resurrection must fall

For it is our doom!



Nahkriin, Lord of Vengeance!

In the Velothi Mountains

With his army of revenants

Guarding Skuldafn!



Morokei, the Glorious

Bromjunaar's priest

He holds the Staff of Magnus

And is not their least!



Vokun, Lord of Shadow!

In the ruined High Gate

His presence does not hallow

His power, ever great!



Volsung, the Horrible!

At Volskygge's summit

To his power, undeniable

Great heroes do submit!



But last, Konahrik.

Ancient Warlord of Dragons

To him bow the meek

The unknown slayer of titans. 


EDIT: spacing

EDIT2: I'm bad at spacing. 

EDIT3: removed random "the"
