---
title: "The Gosling Heresy of the All From Score and Five Plus more."
reddit: 320ouw
author: Speaks_falsehoods
date: 2015-04-09T17:15:08Z
---

In the first iteration of the cycle all but the Twin Brothers survived.
Time and Space, warping and fighting, and they formed the illusion their dead mother, of their father's father's father's lover, of the theiving whore, bringer of the twelve dreads.

But Mortality looked upon The Mundus with jealousy, and he made biddings with the Mer upon Nirn, and they created machinations of death, and pierced the Luminal, allowing Oblivion into Mundus, and Arkay descended from Oblivion, and pulled himself into Nirn, and too took Nirn into himself. And the Infernal Machine who eats all consumed Arkay and Time was undone.

In the second iteration of the cycle the Serpent spoke to Time and to Death, and the three did war, and The machine of Magnus did consume Time and Death, and the third became the lunar.

but Nature and Sky looked upon Mundus with need, and spoke to the Nirnlings, and they planted great forests. And everyone forgot where Kynereth ended and so confused was the Machine that it reached its hunger outward into Oblivion and consumed Kynereth.

In the third whirl of the whirl Three were lied to, Time, Death, and Nature. 

And So the gods of Oblivion lined up to be consumed by the Machine, that they might become Aedra from Daedra. Little Goslings following Mother.

Ald, Arkay, Kynereth, Mara, Zynithar, Stendarr, Julinos, Dibella, Talos the Snake, Molag Bal, Mehrunes Dagon, Namiira, Herma Mora, Clavicus of Vile, Vaermina, Malacath, Sheogorath, Azura, Boethia, Mephala, Hircine, Meridia, Sanguine, Peryite, and Nocturnal.

And cycle after cycle the Core grew, until to broke the Machine, and the Singularity, the I, said the center has meaning when it is also the edge, and the gravity of the gods tore meanings from Mundus, for Oblivion was consumed wholly, and the I grew in reach but not size, and it reached into Aetherius, and swallowed up Auri-El, and became Sithis, and there was only One, the Sharmat, The Aedra, The King, an infinitly dense conflation of all words, and Anu stirred, and the Dreamer awoke to find himself in the dream he still dreamed all alone, and they spoke saying "I AM, AND I ARE ALL THAT IS LEFT."
