---
title: "(unofficial UM) The Doctrine of the Hawase'zur"
reddit: 32ahs5
author: fargoniac
date: 2015-04-12T01:46:48Z
---

This piece was written by Xhonddea Quarros of the University of Morubixaba. Published Rain's Hand 4, 5E 191

The Doctrine of the Hawase'zur

BY XHONDDEA QUARROS


My people, the Hawase'zur, are not native to Morubixaba. Our Ancestors came here on a diplomatic mission yet were so mesmerised by the enchanting beauty of the island that we settled here in the forest. The Moru and Hadoridol accepted us, for they had no use for these blessed jungles. They gave us the name Hawase'zur or Jungle-Lords, but we are not masters of Asckahan's Glory. Rather, the Jungle is the foremost of our gods. 


The Jungle is the only Truly Living God, but rarely acts. Why? This is a question we have attempted to answer for centuries. The most common interpretation is that the Jungle acts in ways we cannot understand. Though we do not worship the Jungle, the Half-Dying Spirits recieve praise in our ziggurats. 


Foremost among the lesser gods is Dawehara, who embodies the formless infinity of Love. From Art and Music to what the Cyrodiils term "polyamory," Dawehara is the Goddess of Happiness. She teaches us to follow our desires but temper them with caution, for her arch-enemy is Sanguin, god of over-indulgence. Sanguin drives us to do evil things in the pursuit of happiness, while Dawehara tells us that we should do the opposite. Is it really possible that we can be happy when others are not?


Dawehara may be the most awake of the Sleeping Powers, but she is not alone. The deities of Blacksmithing, Agriculture, and Community are only three of the Spirits that govern our lives. Let us truly live life to be always happy and mindful, for such is the way of the gods.
