---
title: "[UM] Yneslea Through The Ages: Fourth Era"
reddit: 32kw52
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2015-04-14T16:42:52Z
---

&gt;#Yneslea Through The Ages: Fourth Era
&gt;&gt;#Eis Vuur Warden, Scholar of the Imperial Geographical Society

This is the third book of a three volume-set providing a somewhat complete listing of the historical events of the Ynesleaic archipelago, focusing on the time periods known as the Fourth Era in Tamriel. Note: The Fourth Era is the Common Era and is thus not yet completed in terms of chronology, as previously written.

&gt;#Fourth Era

**4E 1:** The Fourth Era starts with no Emperor on the throne of Tamriel. The Elder Council is unable to choose a successor and Ocato reluctantly becomes Potentate. The outlying provinces take advantage of the Empire's weakness. The Council of Dull Chimes considers seceding from the Empire around this time.

House Redoran refugees fleeing from the destruction of the Oblivion Crisis, led by Brara Morvayn, come to the city of Raven Rock on Solstheim. A small contingent of that group led by Turath Telvayn decides to settle on the seemingly unimportant Bleakrock Isle as a resting point for the sick and wounded. The Nord populace there welcomes and aids the new arrivals. The hard-working mentality of the Redoran integrates firmly with the island’s way of life.

**4E 2:** Black Marsh secedes from the Empire and are now led by the secretive An-Xileel.

**4E 3-4:** The Echmer god-hero HRAHNDEYL travels to Tamriel for the second time in over a millennium. He travels to Morrowind first to speak with his friend Vivec, but finding him gone he decides to travel throughout the Starry Heart before returning to Yneslea. Scholars, mages, and nobles from all over the land come to him for answers and he listens to every question.

**4E 5:** The Red Year. After the disappearance of Vivec, the power that holds the Ministry of Truth in place starts to diminish. A pair of Dunmer mages named Vuhon and Sul with the aid of others build the ingenium, a machine to hold the Ministry of Truth in place. The Ingenium somehow explodes, resulting in the deaths of both Vuhon and Sul and the Ministry of Truth crashes into Vivec City, creating a huge crater that immediately fills with water from the Inner Sea. This crater becomes known as the Scathing Bay. The impact of the Ministry of Truth also causes the eruption of the Red Mountain.

The south of Morrowind is hit by floods and land slides as the great volcano erupts. Vvardenfell is devastated. Areas near Red Mountain, like the town of Gnisis, is destroyed by the flames. Bleakrock Isle is chosen as a primary target for refugees due to its proximity to Morrowind but tsunamis and burning rock from Vvardenfell come crashing down upon it. The Nord citizens on the isle flee to Skyrim, leaving the noble Redoran warriors stationed there to drag Bleakrock out of the ash alone. A shockwave slams into Solstheim and levels Fort Frostmoth, though much of Raven Rock's population manages to survive within the mine. House Redoran takes charge of the relief efforts of Morrowind but ultimately thousands are killed.

Consul Sirius is horrified by the Red Year and sends immediate word to the Council of Dull Chimes to send as much aid as they can for the Dunmer refugees. For the first time in recorded history Echmer ships travel to mainland Tamriel not for trading or for Empire business but for personal matters. They make landfall near Blacklight, where they provided crates of food and medical supplies before sailing back to their archipelago for more.

In Second Seed, shortly after the cataclysmic eruption of Red Mountain, the crippled Morrowind is invaded by an army of Argonians urged on by the Hist. The nation of Morrowind collapses, and the survivors of the cataclysm and the war flee to the islands of Solstheim and Bleakrock Isle. The Argonian invasion reaches at least as far north as Red Mountain before being driven back to the south by House Redoran. Although the Echmer aren’t present to help push back the Argonian aggressors, the provisions they sent are a key element of Redoran victory.

The Echmer returned after the fighting with more supplies and several of their auralmata to help clear debris and rebuild structures on mainland Morrowind. Some of the ships also travel to Bleakrock, where Turath gratefully accepted the tools, food, and medicine the bat elves brought.

**4E 8:** Most of Bleakrock is restored to a hospitable environment, but has drastically changed due to the ashfall. The Echmer return to Yneslea without accepting payment for their generosity.

**4E 10:** Potentate Ocato is assassinated, beginning the Stormcrown Interregnum.

The Elder Council fractures and Consul Sirius renounces his position, traveling with the rest of his kind in the Echmer Embassy back to Yneslea. Many people try to claim the Imperial throne, either by force of arms or by some blood claim.

Upon arriving back in the Ynesleaic archipelago Sirius informs the Council of Dull Chimes about the death of Potentate Ocato. The Council officially secedes Yneslea from the Tamrielic Empire, but remains trading partners with the Starry Heart. The Tamrielic citizens living on the islands are allowed to stay without issue.

The Thalmor rises in power on the Summerset Isles, replacing the royal family as they are hailed as the true heroes of the Altmeri people for having saved them during the Oblivion Crisis.

**4E 14:** Fort Musicmoth on Yne and Fort Icemoth on Pasgaviati are abandoned by Imperial legionnaires, with most of them either returning to Cyrodiil or staying in the Tamrielic communities on the island. The Shattering Fusion takes control of both forts, converting them into bastions for the Echmer army. Several of the legionnaires that stayed on the islands decide to join the Shattering Fusion.

**4E 16:** The Nords of Skyrim grants the islands of Solstheim and Bleakrock Isle to the Dunmer people. Turath, who is now one-hundred and sixty-three years of age, is made Councilor of the small island despite the protests of other Redoran Councilors, seeing it as a nearly worthless outpost.

**4E 17:** Titus Mede, a Colovian warlord, takes control of the Imperial City and the Empire, founding the Mede Dynasty. Skyrim endorses his ascension and Yneslea sees him as a potentially capable ruler.

Later on in the same year the Elder Council is reformed. Emperor Titus requests all of the Imperial territories to send Consuls to represent their nations on the Council, a move that the Echmer believe is good for the weakened Empire. Sirius travels back to Tamriel to retake his old position despite his age.

**4E 18:** Ebony is discovered on Bleakrock Isle and Redoran interest in the island is renewed. Councilor Turath is assassinated by House Hlaalu agents and his light-hearted and kind son Azarien takes his place despite his magically adept but stern twin sister Sherinah being seen as a more favorable substitute.

The Echmer face the first Kamal invasion force in centuries since the early Third Era and sink the fleet with ease. The Kamal however unleashes a mysterious fog that persists over Yneslea for several months after their demise. Many Echmer scholars report that voices can be heard coming from inside the fog and those that enter the densest parts of it come back mad.

**4E 18-19:** Bleakrock experiences famine and raids from Reavers to the north. Councilor Azarien declines asking mainland Morrowind or Solstheim for aid to avoid looking weak, frustrating his sister and the Bleakrock villagers to no end.

**4E 20:** The Bleakrock-Yneslea Concord is signed between the Echmer and the Dunmer. Azarien decides to create trading routes with the former Imperial territories to provide for Bleakrock. He sends a small diplomatic vessel eastwards, hoping that it makes contact.

The ship is soon attacked by pirates, but luckily an Echmer merchant ship heading towards Cyrodiil comes across it and defends the Dunmer soldiers onboard. It’s shipmaster – a woman named Aspasia – helps the crippled vessel back to Bleakrock, where Azarien attempts to make negotiations with her. Aspasia tells the Councilor that she must first contact the Council of Dull Chimes for permission first. After speaking with her people’s leaders for several days through arcane means, the Echmer reveals that she had been elevated to the rank of Consul and that her people will be fine establishing a trade route with Bleakrock.

Effects of the Concord over the years are: House Redoran gains a monopoly on certain goods from the Yneslea archipelago (cream, fish, cheese, butter, etc.), an embassy is built on Bleakrock Isle to house the Echmer Consul and his or her workers, the small Exul village of Naroder is granted leave to be established on the island, with its citizens following Great House Law as well as the Echmeri Law, Bleakrock Isle remains primarily under House Redoran’s control and is officially declared a territory of Morrowind dedicated to the New Temple, the East Empire Company is allowed to conduct business with the island, necromancy is outlawed and becomes punishable by death (a decision supported by the Echmer), and Echmer research, whether mundane or magical in nature, is declared not to be interfered with by Councilor Azarien.

**4E 21:** Sirius dies at the age of one-hundred and twenty-three after serving one-hundred honorable years as Consul for the Elder Council. Aspasia, already Consul to Morrowind, ascends to his former position.

**4E 22:** The Thalmor takes full control of the Summerset Isles, breaking away from the Empire and renaming their province Alinor.

**4E 29:** The government of Valenwood is overthrown by the Thalmor, who take control of the province. The Aldmeri Dominion of old is reborn. Shortly afterwards the Dominion stops all contact with the Empire and other lands.

**4E 98:** The moons vanish from the night sky, bringing about the Void Nights. Although all lands view this with "trepidation and fear," the Khajiit have it the worst due to their reliance on the moon's cycles.

The moon colony of Chiroptera makes contact with the Ynesleaic archipelago for the first time in centuries. Cryptic messages about a ‘Dead Moon’ and ‘Lost Legions from the Underworld’ are sent to the Council of Dull Chimes before abruptly ending, disturbing the entire Echmer race. The Echmer immediately begin to try to discover what happened to the moons.

**4E 99:** The Aldmeri Dominion resumes contact with the Empire and former Imperial territories. The Thalmor begin diplomatic missions to Yneslea and establish an embassy on Yne.

**4E 100:** The return of the moons. The Thalmor claim that they used previously unknown Dawn Magicks to bring them back, though it is unclear whether they did so or merely knew that the moons would return and capitalized on the situation. Elsweyr heralds the Thalmor as their saviors and Thalmor power within the province grows while Mede influence wanes.

Echmer Auriators travel to Masser and do not find Chiroptera. The moon colony is deemed lost once again.

**4E 115:** The Elsweyr Confederacy is dissolved and the states of Anequina and Pelletine are reestablished as client states to the Aldmeri Dominion. The Empire is left with only High Rock, Hammerfell, Skyrim, and Cyrodiil as holdings. Morrowind is only nominally considered part of the Empire and has yet to recover from the Red Year.

**4E 120:** The Council of Dull Chimes establishes a trade route with the Aldmeri Dominion, which angers the Mede Empire.

**4E 168:** Titus Mede II ascends to the Ruby Throne. Both the Empire and Aldmeri Dominion attempt to get the Echmer to choose a side in the ongoing and rising hostilities, but the Council of Dull Chimes strives to remain neutral.

**4E 171:** The Great War begins.

30th Frostfall: An Aldmeri ambassador arrives in the Imperial City with an ultimatum and a cart full of the heads of murdered Blades agents. He demands that the Empire pay tribute to the Dominion, disband the Blades, outlaw the worship of Talos, and cede a large part of Hammerfell to the Dominion. Titus II refuses on all terms.

Within days, both Hammerfell and Cyrodiil are attacked by the Dominion. General Naarifin invades Cyrodiil from Elsweyr and eliminating Imperial defenses along the Valenwood border. Leyawiin falls soon after; Bravil is cut off and besieged. Simultaneously, an army led by Lady Arannelya enters western Cyrodiil from Valenwood and continues on to Hammerfell. Due to the civil war Reguard forces offer limited resistance and the southern coastline is soon in Dominion hands. The outnumbered Imperial legions are forced to cross the Alik'r Desert in what later becomes known as the March of Thirst.

**4E 172:** After their easy success the previous year, the Thalmor make the capture of Cyrodiil their primary objective. They advance further into the province, capturing Bravil and Anvil. By the end of the year, Lord Naarifin's army is at the walls of the Imperial city. There are naval engagements in Lake Rumare and along the Niben as Imperial forces attempt to hold the eastern bank.

The Thalmor consolidate their holdings on the southern coastline of Hammerfell. Only Hegathe is still independent. The survivors of the March of Thirst regroup and join with High Rock forces in the north of Hammerfell.

**4E 173:** Early in the year the Forbear armies of Sentinel break the siege of the Crown city of Hegathe, reconciling the two factions. Lady Arannelya's armies cross the Alik'r and clash indecisively with Imperial legions under General Decianus at Skaven. Decianus is forced to retreat and the Dominion's forces take Skaven, though they are too weakened to advance further.

**4E 174:** The Aldmeri Dominion commits all available forces to the conquest of Cyrodiil. Reinforcements arrive in southern Cyrodiil during the spring.

12th Second Seed: the Aldmeri armies launch an assault on the Imperial City. Lord Naarifin's armies attack from the south, east, and west while another army draws up to surround the city from the north. Titus II decides to fight his way out through the north, leaving the Eighth Legion on rearguard. The Eighth is destroyed, but Titus II's armies manage to fight through the Aldmeri besiegers and join forces with reinforcements from Skyrim led by General Jonna. Meanwhile, the capital falls and is sacked by the invading forces. The Imperial Palace is burned and the White-Gold Tower looted.

The Dominion believes the fight is all but over and makes several attempts to negotiate with Titus II. He pretends that he is preparing to surrender while gathering forces to retake the city.

In Hammerfell, General Decianus prepares to retake Skaven but is called back to Cyrodiil. He leaves behind his most veteran soldiers disguised as discharged invalids. These soldiers make up the core of the army that drives Lady Arannelya's forces out of Skaven and back into the Alik'r in late 174.

**4E 175:** 30th Rain's Hand: The Battle of the Red Ring. General Decianus' army, previously hidden in the Colovian Highlands, attacks the Imperial City from the west. General Jonna's armies comes south from Cheydinhal along the Red Ring Road, crossing the Niben and attempting to join with Decianus' forces. Jonna's armies face bitter resistance from Aldmeri counterattacks from Bravil and Skingrad. Decianus is able to take Lord Naarifin's forces by surprise. The main army, commanded by Titus II, attacks from the north.

5th Second Seed: The Altmeri army besieging the city is completely surrounded. The Aldmeri attempting to flee the city break themselves against the southern legions of General Jonna. Titus personally captures Lord Naarifin, and hangs him from the White-Gold tower. He dies (or, according to one account, is taken away by Daedra) after 33 days.

The Empire and the Aldmeri Dominion sign the White-Gold Concordat, ending the Great War. The terms of the treaty are almost identical to those in the original Dominion ultimatum (including the granting of Hammerfell lands to the Dominion and the outlawing of Talos), but the war-weary Empire is willing to come to peace by any means necessary.

Hammerfell, however, does not want to accept the treaty, and Titus II is forced to remove them from the Empire. The Redguards continue to fight the Dominion.

A splinter group of Brigands calling themselves Hannar’s Legion start the Brigand Rebellion in Uneslea, attempting to repeat the failed campaign of the Almost-King of old. Through the combined forces of the East Empire Company’s Yneslea Chapter, the Council of Dull Chimes, Exul Militia, and Orc Strongholds the Rebellion is quenched and the Brigand population drastically reduced.

**4E 180:** The Second Treaty of Stros M'kai is signed after Redguard and Dominion forces come to a stalemate. Aldmeri armies retreat from Hammerfell.

**4E 190:** Trading routes and diplomatic ventures with the former Imperial territories of Esrionet and Roscrea are strengthened by the Council of Dull Chimes in Yneslea.

**4E 194:** The Kamal, using new tactics, inflict an unprovoked and savage sneak attack on Esrionet. The Council of Dull Chimes and East Empire Company come to the small island kingdom’s aid and are able to sink the fleet, but some of the more eastern settlements are destroyed and have to be rebuilt. Echmer troops are given consent by the Esri to be deployed on the Rim, which is now uncomfortably controlled by the Empire, Yneslea, and Esrionet all at once.
