---
title: "Cyrodiilic Festival Performers, and an excerpt from one such play."
reddit: 333fkd
author: Ian1732
date: 2015-04-19T03:46:48Z
---

As far back as the late 3rd era, the culture of Cyrodiil had come to receive sprinklings of influence from all of the imperial provinces. As traders would travel across the continent, they would typically bear with them a breed of lower class performers that would perform during any festivals they found on their way (or even 'declaring' a festival as the caravan arrived in town, should the troupe be renowned enough). This eventually gave way to a specific form of theater, in which the actors would wear elaborate costumes and ornate hand made masks that only covered the upper face. The frequent traveling in turn resulted in a consistent cast of characters, or rather a consistent set of character archetypes, loosely based on the comedic stereotypes of the residents of the provinces; for instance, there was Bjorn Bearpuncher, the burly, dim witted warrior Nord who would never back down from a drinking competition (but was often prone to cowardliness when an actual challenge reared its head), and the elderly Altmer magician and alchemist Corelian, who would rather spend his time burying his nose in a book than dealing with meddlesome youngsters. And who could forget The Captain, the no-nonsense, grizzled Imperial officer of the guard who will often attempt to thwart the plans of the beloved Trickster in his schemes? Alas, his war injuries often get in the way, which he is careful to remind everyone he comes across. (*Note: The Captain is an ironically beloved character among most guard regiments; it has even given rise to a commonly used inside joke among guards, in which the guard in question will state to an unwary traveler, "I used to be an adventurer like you, until I took an arrow to the knee". This is a reference to one of the more famous traveling shows, in which The Captain will repeatedly complain about his war injuries in response to his nephew's pestering to see the world.*) 

This is not to say that they were the same characters in every single play in which they appeared in. The Skingrad Players, for instance, performed a show in 4E 193 in which the character of Bjorn was instead named Fenrar, but was different in this alone; the character's mannerisms were chiefly the same as Bjorn's. It is best to think of the archetypes more as backbones that the actor or playwright can build off of for their comedy.

While there were many archetypes based off of lampoons of the residents of Imperial territory (and then some), there were some that fell under no particular nationality, instead having mannerisms that truly defined their role in the play. A common plot for a festival play is to have two Lovers in turmoil, as something stands in the way of their love. They call on their friend, the aforementioned Trickster, for help in contriving some plot to remedy their situation and allow their love to blossom. Beyond this, however, anything is game, as the Trickster contrives a harebrained plot to become a few Septims richer through his schemes.

Below is an excerpt from one of the Skingrad Player's more regularly performed shows as they tramp across Cyrodiil, famous for having a special audience of Titus Mede II for the Imperial City's celebration of Jester's Day, 4E 198. Prior to the scene, the Trickster has conspired with the Lovers to get the two alone into the female Lover's home. However, hilarity ensues when The Captain (in this play, the female Lover's father) arrives with a potential suitor for his daughter, and the Trickster scrambles to keep the situation from falling apart.

Velus (Male lover): Ah, my dear friend Caccino, how could I ever repay you for your favour in helping my love to blossom?

Caccino (Trickster): It is hardly a problem at all, Velus. You remain here, and I will go bring your lover here.

*Caccino begins to exit, when he spies Calvus (The Captain) entering the home with another individual in tow. Thinking quickly, Caccino goes about the arduous task of extinguishing the multitude of candles in the room.*

Calvus: Hallo, my lovely daughter Vila! Are you not home? I should like to see you, but all of the candles have been blown out by a draft!

*Caccino tries to sneak past Calvus, who is waving his arms about to feel his way through the darkness, when Calvus makes contact with his shirt.*

Calvus: What is this?

*Calvus feels about Caccino's body for several seconds.*

Calvus: Oh, it is just the troll that I had stuffed when I killed it in the forest all those years back.

*Caccino quickly assumes the posture of a troll, hands in the air, mouth open in a roar.*

Calvus: It gave me a nasty bite, too, right on my rump. Let's see if those teeth are as sharp as I remember them.

*Calvus runs his hands along Caccino's open mouth, feeling his teeth.*

Calvus: Yikes, how frightening a battle it was!

*Beat*

Calvus: Wait a moment. I sold that stuffed troll ages ago.

*Beat as Caccino glances about. Has he been found out?*

Calvus: Oh, this is that statue of Dibella that I recieved as a gift from one of my lovers.

*Caccino changes his posture from that of the stuffed troll to that of a traditional statue of Dibella.*

Calvus: No, that can't be right, she took it back from me after we seperated. Oh, it must be my nice chair!

*Caccino bends backwards to assume a chairlike position. As Calvus is about to sit down...*

Fenrar (Bjorn Bearpuncher): Ho! Captain! Aren't you going to be introducing me to your daughter?

Calvus: What? Oh, very well. You just go on ahead while I...

*Calvus falls asleep right on top of Caccino, snoring loudly. Fenrar proceeds towards Velus, who has been listening in the next room over.*

Fenrar: Hello, Vila? Your father has brought me here to take you away to be married!

*Fenrar manages to grab Velus's rear in the darkness, who gasps loudly and in a manner not unlike that of a woman*

Fenrar: Oh, my lady! I did not mean to damage your lovely body with my big, strong hands.

Velus: *In a high pitched tone, as though imitating a woman* It is no trouble, but you must leave, because... I am shaving my beard! I can only do it in complete darkness!

Fenrar: Pah! You say that as though we Nords do not appreciate a bit of beard on our women!

Velus: Oh, no, this is not just a little beard, sir Nord! It is the largest of any women's beards in all of Tamriel!

Fenrar: All the better to braid, my dear lady! I am aware that you Imperials do not care much for hair on your women's chins, but in Skyrim, they have a saying; Behind every strong warrior, there is a beautiful, properly bearded woman.

*Meanwhile, Calvus begins to stir from his nap, and make his way towards Fenrar and Velus.*

Calvus: What is all this racket? Do you not realize that I am trying to get a nap? This is--

*Calvus bumps directly into Fenrar, who doesn't notice the intrusion.*

Calvus: Oh, is that you, Vila?

*Calvus feels up Fenrar's muscular body*

Calvus: I must say, my daughter, you have certainly developed in the time since I was away.

*At this moment, Vila enters the home*

Vila: Hello, my love? Are you home?

*Fenrar does a bewildered double take.*

Fenrar: What in Oblivion is happening here? Let me open up this window and let some light in.

*He does so; everyone can see clearly*

Fenrar: Ah!

Velus: Ah!

Corvus: Ah!



For those seeking closure for the ending of the show, Velus bravely informs Corvus that he intends to marry his daughter, and asks for his blessing. Corvus agrees, after some coercing from a sympathetic and embarrassed Fenrar, and the lovers are engaged to be wed, while Caccino manages to trick Corvus into forgiving him a previous sentence issued for prior trickery. All in all, there is a happy ending, as is tradition with these comedies.
