---
title: "Cultural Phenomena of Tamriel: Cyrodiil’s Cults of Shezarr"
reddit: 33n2n7
author: ddaybones
date: 2015-04-23T21:23:29Z
---

Imperial Anthropologist Varlo Jannicus, Imperial Library

Dated: 4th Era 202

Many will point to the recent uprising in Skyrim’s chilling north as a sign of fanaticism in our time. The Jarl of Windhelm, Ulfric Stormcloak has called all to his banner who oppose the banning of Talos worship and leads his forces in rebellion against the forces of the Empire. However many do not realize that a similar vein of religious radicalism has emerged here in the heartland of Cyrodiil. 
 
Imperials have always venerated Shezarr in one form or another down through the ages. This worship even predates the enslavement of man by the Ayleids, and it is usually attributed to his disappearance that man was conquered by mer. Nevertheless, Shezzar has always maintained a position in the Imperial consciousness, one could even find his cult in the Temple District of the Imperial City. Now though, the events of the 4th Era seemed to have created a reaction that has permeated every rank of society. 

The Great War ravaged Cyrodiil and the Empire economically, politically and culturally. Even today the scars of the war have yet to fully heal and a storm brews yet again on the horizon. This atmosphere of paranoia and lost pride has lead to the founding of radical cults of Shezarr throughout Colovia, Nibenay and the Heartland alike. This being a very recent development, the location of it’s origin is still murky, but the author believes that this fanaticism probably started in the Colovian Highlands. What is remarkable about this movement is that it did not remain in the Highlands for long before it spread across Cyrodiil like a wildfire, and it seems that it has struck a chord in every class and with all types of citizens. 

These new cults of Shezarr do not venerate the image that was passed down by Alessia when she synthesized the Eight Divines, calling him “the spirit behind all human undertaking.” No, these cults honor the bloodthirsty anti-Altmer warlord of old who protected them from Elven aggression. Now the cult hasn’t been shunned as deviants by the population, yet it seems many will not readily admit to their worship, although some very vocal members have taken to the streets of several cities. They denounce the Thalmor and the Second Aldmeri Dominion with a fiery zeal that is inspired, they liken the current situation of the Empire to those ancient Cyro-Nordics who relied upon Shezzar for protection and guidance. A return is called for, a return to the ways of old in order to preserve our current culture and way of life, lest we fall into Eleven slavery once again. This message seems to have resonated because people from all walks of life, those born of privilege and of poverty have seem drawn to this. Given the current circumstances the Empire finds itself in, it is not hard to see why this faction has gained momentum. Following amongst the ranks of the Imperial Legion seems to have grown rapidly, the reasons being obvious, these men have already, or have yet to face the Elven forces of the Aldmeri Dominion, by invoking and worshiping this view of Shezzar, they call upon him to lead them once again. Victory bringing freedom from the Dominion or failure which means only slavery and death.  

A key difference between this grassroots movement and the Stormcloak rebellion is that these cults are fiercely loyal to the Empire. Yet their finally goals remain dubious and unknown at the current moment. Now it is the opinion amongst my peers that this could be a clever way of subverting the Thalmor ban on Talos worship, by simply worshiping another deity that was anti-Elven. I share this view to a degree but also think it strikes at something deeper, what Shezzar himself represents to man. Alessia herself said that freedom was just another name for Shezzar. That is what this cult desires above all else, freedom for mankind. The freedom to worship as one pleases, to be free from the spectre of war and conquest, free to live as we desire without fear. That is what Shezzar represents to these men and women. It seems that their conviction will be needed as events spiral towards the inevitable.
