---
title: "The Godhead Delusion-A Critique of Psijic Theology"
reddit: 33vpl7
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2015-04-26T02:09:10Z
---

**The Godhead Delusion-A Critique of Psijic Theology**

Three years ago, I awoke from my bed in the White Gold Tower and had the most peculiar thought: Why am I here? Why is anything here? I'm familiar with the usual explanations. Any well read scholar knows of Anu and Padomay, the various creation myths, and the Anuic-Padomaic dichotomy. Yet on that day all of those explanations rang hollow to me. 

Eight hours later, I, Malpenar Macrin, left my Moth Priest duties to become a wandering scholar in pursuit of the answers to my questions. I have visited the College of Whispers, the Imperial Synod, the College of Winterhold, the Library of the Sun, and a few other places I do not care to mention. This paper is the result of my research. 

Here is a basic summary of the prevailing worldview in academia today:

There was a primordial being called ANU who took part in an enantiomorph that resulted in him creating this universe in a "divine dream" of sorts. From him subgraded his dream self and the nightmare of his attacker from his previous life. 

The interplay of Dream Anu and Dream Padomay created the Aurbis, a realm where it was possible for original spirits embodying concepts to emerge. One of these was Lorkhan, a spirit of limit, who through some means influenced the et'Ada into creating the Mundus and thus mortality. The Daedra, who did not take part in this endeavor, made their planes of Oblivion and the Aedra tied their power to the Mundus. The rest became Earthbones or mortals. 

Those are the basics, usually called Psijic Theory. From that view virtually all accepted theories descend, from Amaranthine Romanticism to Neostatic Transcendentalism. However, Psijic Theory is incomplete and best and false at worst. There is a major flaw that has been overlooked in the past that ought to be brought to light. 

**Psijic Theology does not explain how something came out of nothing.** 

The Anuad story does not explain where Anu came from. It just pushes the problem of existence into the past. At this point Amaranthine Romantacists would come in an say that there is an infinite number of Amaranths, and we are just in one of them. However, that can't be true.

**The Infinite Amaranth argument breaks down when you consider that at some point, we had to get here.** If there is an infinite progression of moments, we necessarily would have had to go through an infinite number of Amaranths to reach our present state, which is impossible. 

It would be like walking on an infinite road. If you are at point A on an infinite road and wanted to get to point B, you would have to walk an infinite number of steps in order to reach it. However, the definition of infinity implies that you cannot walk an infinite number of steps. Therefore, you will never reach point B. 

More perplexing, however, is how you got to point A in the first place. If it takes an infinite amount of steps in any direction to change your position in AkaLorkh, you could never have a position in the first place, because you never could have reached it.

***The Infinite Amaranth Progression Theory must be false.*** 

If it is false, subgradience theory is also in peril, because Aurbical subgradience depends on the Dream Anu and Padomay dichotomy-two beings who are subgradient of ANU. 

**An Alternate Theory**

Perhaps there is another theory that better explains existence than the Psijic theories. 

Rather than there being an infinite progression of Amaranths, all Amaranths exist concurrently and were created simultaneously by a single transcendent being out of nothing. **An "Unamaranthed Amaranth", if you will.**

This "Unamaranthed Amaranth" exists outside of everything. It is completely static. Nothing occurs to it, but it occurs to everything. What seems to us is a progression is but a single moment for it, sustained by omnipotent power. It knows everything that happens in each Dream because it created everything from its own mind. 

The metaphysical structure can be thought of as a plated sphere. The sphere itself is the Unamaranthed Amaranth, and all of the actual amaranths are plates attached to the sphere.

**What Can Be Deduced About The Unamaranthed Amaranth**

1. **It is a being.** The complexity of the universe suggests that the Unamaranthed Amaranth is a being. It is improbable that a simple force would produce such complexity. Forces govern single causes and effects. If it were just a force, there might be something, but it wouldn't be nearly as complicated as our world. For instance, it might have resulted in a single infinite plane rather than our mosaic universe.

2. **It is imaginative.** This being has created many worlds, each one with a slightly different history. This suggests a very active imagination.

3. **It is orderly.** There is an astonishing amount of sorting methods in the universe. Mathematics is one example, but more telling is the AE system. Everything in the universe can be sorted into an AE, and the AEs are the conceptual components of the universe. 

Our experience of Amaranthine creation also suggests a mechanistic approach to universe creation. We know that as new Amaranths are born, the Dreams becomes more complex. Anu's dream was less complicated than Tamriel and Tamriel is less complicated than Akavir. 

Complexity Progression: 1, 2, 3, 4...

**In Conclusion**

The traditional Infinite Amaranth Progression theory should be set aside. It is logically fallacious and unobservable. It is far more logical and probable that there is an Unamaranthed Amaranth that created all things. Our efforts ought to be focused on discovering more about the Unamaranthed Amaranth.
