---
title: "The Sky is not Blue"
reddit: 358qxf
author: Renegard
date: 2015-05-08T01:22:41Z
---

The Sky is not Blue.

by Lami Wind-Speaker

*A blasphemous treatise on the sky by a former priestess of Kynareth*

“Why is the Sky blue?” It is a simple question that every toddler in Tamriel has asked their parents. I spent long hours contemplating the sky and the goddess Kynareth in my service as a priestess of her temple. I believe I have found an answer to this question, one that goes contrary to everything I was taught as an acolyte.

During my duties as a priestess I aided many people with the healing arts passed down in the temple of Kynareth, one day an Elf came stumbling through my door, attacked by bandits and left for dead. Over the next several days I learned much from this elf.

He claimed to be a priest of the Daedra. I was tempted to throw him out when I heard this, but the temple does not judge those in need of our services. The Daedra in particular that he worshiped was Meridia, and the priest shared his knowledge of the Prince of Light and Life with me in thanks for healing him. Everyone young and old  knows that when you look upon the night sky you are actually staring into the waters of oblivion, but what of the stars? As the priest told me the stars are where the Magne-Ge, the gods who followed Magnus fled the world before creation, to escape the death that their father had foreseen. The sun is the largest of these tears, caused by Magnus himself.

But if the night sky represents Oblivion, then what of the daytime sky? The priest had an answer. He presented me a book, some tome explaining an ancient fragment of Ayleid scripture. In it Meridia is presented as one of these Magne-Ge. Merid-Nunda was cast out from Aetherius for some unknown offense and became the Daedra known as Meridia. She is thrown into the realms of Oblivion and proceeds to create a great lens of herself, which she uses to focus the light of Magnus and carve a new purpose for her life. 

The Song of Shezarr tells us that the realms of Oblivion are self contained within the Daedra themselves, indeed it would be accurate to say that the Daedra are their realms. If Meridia transformed to focus and alter the light of Magnus then the same is true for her realms. This is the true answer to the question, the sky itself is not blue for the daytime sky is Meridia herself, the colors seen in the sky during the waking hours is the light of Magnus filtered through the many Colored Rooms of Merid. 

Do you not believe me? Then ask yourself this dear reader, why else do the nations of the undead, hated by Meridia as they are, only dare come out of their caves and tombs during the night and never during the day?

*Publishers note: Shortly after this tome was submitted for publication the author mysteriously disapeared from the Temple of Kynareth in Whiterun. There have been reports of a woman matching her description deep in the mountains of Haafingar.*
