---
title: "Journal of Magickal Experimentation"
reddit: 35sbtz
author: MakutaFearex
date: 2015-05-13T02:28:43Z
---

By Torvon, Arch-mage of the College of Winterhold, Harbinger of the Companions, Guild-master of the Thieves Guild (Skyrim Branch), Listener of the Dark Brotherhood, Nightingale of Nocturnal, Thane of Whiterun, Thane of Eastmarch, Thane of Winterhold, Thane of Hjaalmarch, Thane of the Pale, Thane of the Rift, Thane of the Reach, Thane of Falkreath, Thane of Haafingar, Legate of the Imperial Legion, Member of House Telvanni, Skaal-Friend, Ysmir the Dragon of the North, and the Last Dragonborn.

Entry 1: J’Zargo had better be happy. I damn near took up a whole page writing out my titles, just because he wanted to know so he could get more. But I digress, this journal is to be a record of my magickal experiments and findings. Exact details of my experimental set-ups shall be recorded separately, so as to collect my results and findings in a condensed form that can be shared with others in the college, and possibly throughout Tamriel.

Entry 2: I have begun experimentation within the School of Illusion. Specifically, I will discuss my results from tests of the limitations of invisibility spells. For the uninitiated, Illusion spells focus on manipulating the mind of those around you. So when you cast an invisibility spell you do not actually become invisible by bending light, you just make others believe you are not there. This is also the limitation of invisibility, for if you perform an action that disturbs the environment around you in a large enough way the spell will break. This can range from opening doors to grabbing a lord’s jewels. But how large of a change is required? My results indicate that this depends on the attentiveness of your target. When tested against an unwitting target, the caster was able to repeatedly approach the target to arms reach without issue. However, when the target was informed and watching for signs of the caster the success rate was varied. On surfaces with limited to no changes from footsteps, like stone, the caster was able to reach within 10 feet of the target. However on soft surfaces, like snow and mud, the attentive target was able to detect the caster easier, and so the caster only averaged 30 feet from the target with a minimum of 25 feet. 

The effect that the caster's focus has on the spell was also tested. By having the caster use simple calm spells on the target, we were able to determine that the caster's focus must be primarily set on maintaining the invisibility, and the attention required to cast another spell was enough to break the invisibility. 

Entry 3: My next set of experimentation was with the School of Alteration, particularly paralysis spells. Now many mages from outside Skyrim may point out that paralysis falls under the School of Illusion. I myself was surprised by this at first, but the Alteration Master of the College insisted that the method used by Skyrim mages was different from those outside. As we know from Illusion, paralysis spells focus on convincing the target they cannot move. This works well enough, but anyone with sufficient willpower had a chance to resist the spell. Examination of 3rd Era artifacts from Morrowind, borrowed from Master Neloth, show that enchantments were designed to allow the wearer to resist this paralysis effect. Not only that, but some alchemical ingredients existed that could also produce this same effect. After having both an enchanted ring and several potions brewed from netch leather and corkbulb root delivered to the college, we investigated the effects.

After testing on several subjects that were not under the paralysis spell, they said they felt light and fluid, as if nothing could restrain them or hold them back. The test was repeated, except the subjects were under the effects of paralysis spells. No change was noted when they wore the ring or drank a potion immediately before being struck with the spell, however they reported the same feeling of lightness after the spell dissipated. This leads me to two conclusions: that the classic paralysis in Illusion is separate from the one in Alteration, and the classic spell can be negated if one can believe themselves to be able to move. The Alteration spell appears to focus on forcing the body of the target to not accept movement. They can still be struck by weapon or spell, so they are not locked in place by the air or clothing they wear. The Restoration Master notes that the subject suffers no ill damages, and that in fact the affected subject's muscles are simply not responding to commands.

Entry 4: Again in the school of Alteration I have done some experimentation, this time in regards to the Mage Armour spells, also known as "Flesh" spells. The basic principle is that the caster hardens their skin to be similar to another material, typically wood, stone, iron, or ebony. This provides the caster improved protection against physical strikes against them. Now the experiment comes from the emergence of these spells, and the decline of older shield spells. To test this, we compared the ability to resist weapon blows, duration, and the overall magicka cost. Obviously only wooden clubs were used for testing and a healer was on site for any possible injuries. Master Neloth provided some old tomes that contained the shield spells, as no one at the college used them.

After testing, we have determined that similar levels of protection could be achieved with both spells, however the Flesh spells seems more magicka efficient for similar durations. I would conclude that this is due to the fact that shield spells produce a bubble of magic around the caster, which is not a common thing to occur naturally, whereas the Flesh spells use a natural material as the base, making it less difficult for the Earthbones to accept. As a note, elemental shields were discussed as well, and the obvious reason why they fell out of use was the advent of wards, which provide protection against all 3 elements and other magickal effects. Skilled Restoration mages can also absorb a portion of the magicka in the spell that strikes a ward.

Entry 5: It occurs to me that if this journal is published, many would be expecting to read about a power that is very near to me, being Dragonborn: the Thu'um. Now any who wish to know more of this seemingly lost art may try climbing the 7000 Steps to High Hrothgar and hope that they will be accepted by the Greybeards to learn of the Way of the Voice. I will be willing to discuss some generalities and results, but no details will be given. For any normal mortal, it takes years to master a single shout. This journal cannot provide the kind of knowledge you will need to begin learning this mighty art. For those unfamiliar with it, the Thu'um involves speaking a word in the dragon language and projecting your essential knowledge of the word into it to form a shout. The more words you know and the deeper your understanding, the more powerful your shout. 

Entry 6: On the topic of the Thu'um, one may wonder what the basis of this power is. It is not your typical magicka-based magic, it is far more fundamental than that. You are singing your own notes into the song of the Aurbis and making them real. This is the Thu'um. So does that seem familiar to anyone? Some of you reading this may already understand what I am hinting at. As for the rest of you, I will hold you in suspense no longer: the Thu'um is a form of Tonal Architecture, like that used by the Dwemer of old. If any reading this question my assertion, all I can say is you must pledge yourself to the Way of the Voice if you desire to know more. But I can tell you what I have seen of it. But to understand this, you must have some background on the dragons themselves. 

From what I have been able to discover dov are likely lesser fragments of the Aka over-soul. For those unfamiliar with this topic, I recommend reading tomes on the Anuad and the Dawn Era. With this deep connection to the world, as they exist as lesser fragments of the time god, dov have a unique understanding of the Tones in the Aurbis, and can project them as a Thu'um. So when a dovah shouts YOL, the word for fire, they are projecting that very concept into the Aurbis. This means that a greater understanding of the words and Tones allows greater strength and effectiveness in the shout.

Entry 7: A loss occurred at the College today. Arniel Gane was killed in an experiment gone wrong. He was a scholar and a friend, and he will be missed. All that was left behind was the artifact know as Keening, an ancient dagger used by the Dwemer to tap into the Heart of Lorkhan. He was certain he was near a breakthrough into the disappearance of the Dwemer, but it seems he was lost as they were.

Entry 8: I have discovered something odd. Today I was on the road from Windhelm, and some bandits attacked me. They met a quick end, between the mage fire and dragon fire, but something else interesting occurred. I felt what could best be described as a tug in my mind. It was similar to a conjuration spell, so I used it. To my surprise, I was able to conjure a shade that appears to be Arniel. He does not speak, but he still has the ability to fight and cast spells. He dissipated after a short time, but I re-cast the spell and there he was again. I must figure out what happened that day.

Entry 9: I was able to pull some strings and procure some old tomes from Morrowind, specifically related to the Dwemer and their disappearance. It seems that a theory is that they became fused with the Numidium after tapping into the Heart to activate it. This is interesting, and may suggest a solution to the mysterious loss of Arniel. I will be sending coorespondence to every academic and scholarly institution in Tamriel to get all the information I can on the disappearance of the Dwemer. I will also use my other contacts to find all the information possible. This is now a matter of great interest for me.

Entry 10: So far very little information has been found, but it appears that Arniel must have somewhat replicated an idea called "anti-creation" that was used by the Dwemer that caused a being to ascend a sub-gradient by merging souls, and then shatter into a sub-gradient as far below mortals as they are below gods. But it was incomplete, judging from how I can call a complete shade. It may be due to using the incorrect tools, as he possessed only Keening and none of the other Tools. Keening also appears to be degraded, as the enchantments seem weaker than they were written as. For example, I can wield it without Wraithguard. The blade also appears damaged. It is made of an unfamiliar blue crystal. I will continue my investigation into this.

Entry 11: Aetherium! That appears to be what the blade is made from. I have some impure samples from the Aetherions I fought on my way to the Aethership. I think I may be able to repair the damage to the blade, but I am not sure about the enchantments. I expect they will not recover when I repair Keening. My struggle now lies in re-energizing the enchantments. I am no Tonal Architect. I will use some of my connections within Morrowind to get to more information on repairing the enchantments.

Entry 12: I was able to use the Aetherium Forge, and Keening seems repaired. The enchantments are not fully recovered, but it seems that it has the potential to recover. My contacts in Morrowind have turned up little in the way of information, but some documents for Vivec's personal library were recovered before the destruction of the city. My contacts within the Thieves Guild were able to acquire them. Most were some historical information, but one document caught my eye. It related to the plan to defeat Dagoth Ur, and a section focused on the way the Nerevarine had to use Kagrenac's Tools on the Heart of Lorkhan. It described using Keening repeatedly on the Heart to destabilize the enchantments that held it in place. I believe this is what caused the degradation of Keening, as the repeated shattering of Tones likely caused some backlash to the weapon itself. Wait! Tones! I cannot believe I didn't think of it until now. I can use the Thu'um to repair Keening! But I don't know what Tones I will need to use to repair it. 

Entry 13: I had a breakthrough today. Fyr Manor has a portal room, and there is one portal I wasn't able to activate. Until I found a ring on the ground. I was able to open a portal to what appears to be Sotha Sil's lab! I approached what appeared to be a control console, and after some trial and error I was able to open up information he had on the Tools of Kagrenac. With this I was able to determine the Tones required to repair the tool. Now I must meditate and focus on digging though the knowledge I have gained from the dov whose souls I have consumed. How many souls have I absorbed? 30? 40? I do not know. Alduin sent many dragons against me, and many more tried to defeat me even after he fell.

Entry 14: Success! I have been able to repair the enchantments on Keening. However I cannot handle the Tool now, as simply touching it drains my very strength away. While I could likely augment myself magically to resist the effects, I would need the other tools anyway for my experiments. Now comes the hardest part: tracking down Sunder and Wraithguard. Enthir said that Arniel was the one that found Keening, he just arranged the transportation. So I have sent all of my resources to try and track down Arniel's source, and hopefully location the remaining Tools.

Entry 15: Several months, and nothing has turned up. Not even a fragment of a whisper of Arniel's source. Is it a waste of time?

Entry 16: A Bosmer woman appeared at the College today, asking to see me. She was appeared to be rather young, little more than a half century old it appeared. She was inquiring about the College, and my journeys in Skyrim. As she was getting ready to leave, she looked me straight in the eye and said "I know what you desire. Meet me in seven days’ time at the Temple of Miraak on Solsthiem. There, I will test your worthiness. See you soon Dovahkiin, chosen of Akatosh." I was shocked. As she left I glanced at her ring that she wore, and I understood. See you in a week.

Entry 17: Solstheim. The Temple of Miraak. Here I found her, sitting quietly on the cold ground. She was cloaked in a Telvanni robe over glass armour. She offered me sujamma, and we shared a drink in the ruins of my old enemy's Temple. She stared me in the eye and said "I have bested 2 gods in single combat, and an aspect of a Daedric Lord. You are Dragonborn, chosen of Akatosh. You have bested the World-Eater, an ancient Vampire Lord, and the one who was the First of your kind. You have also vanquished and absorbed many lesser aspects of the Time Dragon. If you can best me in combat, I will give you Sunder and Wraithguard. Do you accept?" I thought for a moment, and agreed. So we fought. She was a master mage, and our spells exchanged, with neither gaining advantage. She came at me with a bound dagger, which I narrowly avoided. I summoned my own sword, but she was suddenly gone. I tried detect life and even dead spells, to no avail. She had somehow masked herself against all my spells. I knew then what I had to do if I hoped to best her. I used my Thu'um to reveal the life forces of those near me. I then saw her, and narrowly avoided her blade. I shouted fire at her, and she dodged it gracefully. "Very good Dragonborn. Now come at me with all the power you possess." So we fought, spell, steel, and shout. The odds were turning, and I slowly gained advantage. But even still, I could not land a blow against her. So I gambled, and spoke the Tones that could bend the minds of dragons. They washed over her, and she hesitated for a moment, fighting the urge to submit to me. I took the opening, and my blade was at her neck. She dropped her weapons, and yielded to me. "Victory is yours, Dragonborn. Take the Tools. We shall meet again. But first be warned, Wraithguard deals a heavy cost for those unprepared for its power. I have no doubt that you will be able to solve its mysteries. Farewell." With that, she vanished. All that remained was a Dwemer gauntlet, and a hammer. I lifted Wraithguard and placed it in my pack, then I telekinetically moved Sunder to my pack as well. Off to Winterhold.

Entry 18: I have determined how to use Wraithguard. But the question becomes: what now? I have the Tools, and they were made for one purpose. That purpose is lost now though, buried deep in the fires of Red Mountain. It is lost to the world. It would be impossible to access. And based on my research the Heart is no longer even on the material plane. So what is the point? Any even so, what would I do with the Heart? Use its power and become a god like ALMSIVI? I need advice. I will seek the master of the Greybeards.

Entry 19: I have realized that this has become less of an experimental journal, and more of a personal one. So here is my next experiment. I will journey to the heart of Red Mountain, and find the Heart of the World. I have been working on fashioning something to protect me from the magma within Red Mountain. I chose ebony for the material, and with the assistance of the Chronographers in Lull-Mor I constructed it to completely seal the wearer from the outside. It also has an advanced clockwork mechanism to aid in moving through the liquid rock. I enchanted it to be completely resistant to heat, and it carries an air supply that converts magicka stored in a soul gem into breathable air. In field testing it performed perfectly. But the Tools cannot handle the heat as well. Luckily, I no longer need them. I have sat for many nights, listening to the Tones these Tools create. After several tests on Arniel's soul gem I believe I can use the Thu'um to the same effect. I tested it on the gem with great success. Tomorrow I leave for Morrowind.


Entry 20: Daar kos fin rot: Hil do Shor, hon zuli. Daal wah Taazokaan. Nu mu fent aav fin suleyk do Aka ahrk Lorkhan. Hon nu daar Thu’um: NOS KREN SULEYK!

