---
title: "Flora of Skyrim, Volume V: The Dragon’s Tongue of Argonia"
reddit: 3673go
author: cthulhuh00p
date: 2015-05-16T20:16:42Z
---

by Froa Giantborn

To the uninitiated, Dragon’s Tongue may seem to be a rare flower found only in the homes of the rich. It is native to Eastmarch, and that’s all many know of it. What if I told you none of that was true? Well, you’ll know in a second, because I’m telling you that none of it is true.

Dragon’s Tongue is actually quite common; for every 3 snowberries one might find, there grows a Tongue. This is mainly due to its resistance to fire, which allow it to grow in the hot springs of Eastmarch where there is little competition. Very few venture to this area, and thus it is rarely seen. This explains why it thought to be uncommon, but how did spread so well in the semi-volcanic area it inhabits? No pollinators live there (I didn’t find a single beehive within the springs themselves), but somehow the flower spreads. The flower can fortify the illusion skill if in a potion, which indicates that the flower itself may emanate weak illusion magic. Perhaps charm spells are responsible for the insects one can find venturing so far from their hive to help a flower?

That explains why it thrives it in Eastmarch, and many believe it to be native there. In fact, it’s native to the swamps of Argonia! According to Special Flora of Tamriel, a short piece by Hardin the Herbalist (a book I picked up from a Dunmeri refugee), it can fortify an Argonian’s endurance. I haven’t been able to test this out, but I doubt that the samples in Skyrim have this effect, even on Argonians. It is possible, however, that this effect is specific to the variety in Black Marsh, maybe due to manipulation by the Hist^1. So, how does the Skyrim variety differ in alchemical effects?

The strain growing in Eastmarch can resist fire and fortify illusion, as I said. They can also make one more appealing, turning them into quite the wordsmith. Finally, they hold the rare power of momentarily strengthening one’s mastery of large weapons. There are no other plants with this effect, but the Fly Amanita fungus shares it. This effect may also explain something others have simply attributed to a cultural rift or something of the like. Why do the easterners prefer two-handed weapons? Why are the Stormcloak rebels forgoing shields for longswords? Because of this alchemical effect. The Dragon’s Tongue is the single most common flower in Eastmarch, and therefore used in more potions than any other plant. But the effect, I believe, have seeped into the very soil, or wafted through the steamy air. Perhaps it’s in the crops, or is just inhaled by the populace. But this is why you find more warhammers than maces in the east. I know this is a very large assertion but believe me, I have proof. I recently spent quite a while testing out this phenomenon (which is why my latest entry has been so delayed). I watched the miners in both Darkwater Crossing and the recently reopened Kolskeggr, and those in Eastmarch produced ore nearly two-thirds faster.

Overall, the Dragon’s Tongue is a very unusual flower, but nonetheless is vital to the Eastmarch ecosystem, drawing in pollinators and influence the way of war. It is not used in cooking, but it’s magic does affect the food. If you enjoyed this entry, please be sure to read volumes [I](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/35eria/flora_of_skyrim_volume_i_the_humble_snowberry/), [II](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/35esri/flora_of_skyrim_volume_ii_the_wily_juniper/), [III](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/35etv2/flora_of_skyrim_volume_iii_the_ominous_deathbell/), and [IV](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/35jv6w/flora_of_skyrim_volume_iv_the_wellused_tundra/). Be on the lookout for Volume VI, though it may take a bit longer, as I plan to travel to Shrouded Grove to see if there is adequate information on spriggans to write about them. I also plan to join the [Heljarchen Association for Alchemy Studies](http://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/35esri/flora_of_skyrim_volume_ii_the_wily_juniper/cr4pbvj) while in the area, which may impede my progress on the next entry.


^1 The Hist are a race of sentient plants living in Black Marsh. To the extent of my knowledge, they are trees that share a mental link with Argonians (who they created?). I am not very well acquainted with them, but I hope to learn more (I might include it a future volume).

