---
title: "To Almalexia"
reddit: 367htn
author: Kestrellius
date: 2015-05-16T22:29:04Z
---

(Note: I am at this time unaware of the precise identity of my benefactor. However, my research suggests that, if not responsible, Lady Almalexia of the Tribunal was at least involved, and so I address this letter to her.)

I write you to express my gratitude for the packages of equipment and coin you've been sending me. Prior to the arrival of the first shipment, I was equipped only with make-do chitin armor. Your gift of a suit of effective and stylish Dark Brotherhood armor has improved my survivability by a considerable amount.

Likewise, the more recent shipments have helped me to establish a reliable source of income. There are many valuables to be found on Vvardenfell, but a fine suit of armor nonetheless fetches a good price.

However, I must also ask you to rein in your delivery methods. Between the local wildlife and your gift packages, I have scarcely been able to get a good night's rest. Perhaps next time, you could deliver the package to the Mages' Guild lobby and send me a message. The last one was fortunate not to be destroyed on sight when it barged past a dozen skilled mages on its way to me.

Regardless, you have my thanks. Once my business on Vvardenfell is concluded, perhaps I will come to visit you in Mournhold, and show you some of the abilities I've developed as a result of your generosity.

Yours, with respect and adoration,

-- Kerethil of High Rock, Mages' Guild Evoker and Blades Agent
