---
title: "Barbesaic Ayleids creation myth"
reddit: 367jb2
author: Ayleidsornothing
date: 2015-05-16T22:42:50Z
---

Hi all, this will be my first (attempted) contribution. One thing that has always fascinated me in lore is the Ayleids (as my name would suggest) and so I thought I would try and add in my thoughts on the barseabic  Ayleids. So, here is what I believe their creation myth would look like (after so many years of isolation). Feedback is much appreciated and please be gentle, this is my first attempt.

First there was only HIM. HE was eternal and HE was all. All was happy, for all was HIM. Nothing existed outside of HIM for nothing needed to, for HE was everything needed. A great bird that flew through the nothingness, HE ventured forth endlessly without any cause. Great fire was eternal from him always, for it provided the light in which to see into nothingness. And so it was that HE continued into nothing, searching for existence outside of himself, but in truth he alone was something. HE, like all things, perished and died but HE did so with great reason and with purpose. Isolation, loneliness crept in over eternity, HE did not know what it would be to know another, for HE, even in his all encompassing knowledge, could not comprehend what was not possible. So to do the impossible out of love for himself HE tore himself asunder, turning into the great ash of existence which spreads out into vast nothingness even to this day. HE turned himself into the impossible- creation itself, and his ash is now everything we know.

First to rise from the ash were the eternal aspects, the guardians of eternity. Each of these gods serves as an aspect of HIM, for he knew that if he could not create another, he could become many. Each God began claiming their own space of ash, moulding it to fit themselves and branching into the infinity that had been made for them, but they were not the sole inhabitants. For it was that the more benevolent gods created, nine in total, wished for subjects to rule over, perfect followers to which they could help- and so the elven kin were born, the first mortals of everything. For them a mortal plane was made, filled with the elements needed for survival. From the embers left from him the made the stars and magnol, the sun, to light the darkness of creation for the mortals. Then came Nirnethe, made from HIS body, the perfect ecosystem so that the elven kin flourished, and all was content and happy- save for one.

There was one who scorned the elves, one who hated them, hated their impurity and mortality. This gods name was Khathres, HIS deceitfulness, the God of trickery. And so he set out to not destroy the elves, but rather make them suffer an eternal war with another- man. To create this mocking image of the elven kin Khathres knew that he alone could not create life, so he did what came natural to him and deceived the nine benevolent ones. Khathres told them that the elves were lonely, just as HE once was and that they required companions to live alongside. The benevolent nine, in their quest to keep the elves happy, decided to help Khathres in his creation and so they lent him their power to do so. Once this cruel mockery of elves were created the benevolent grew angry with the deception that Khathres had made them subject to. They summoned the power within themselves and tore into Khathres, ripping him in two as his heart fell unto the world that he mocked. Now his body hangs limp over Nirnethe, forever split in two, never to be repaired. And so it is to this day that the benevolent nine watch over Khathres's body and the whole of Nirnethe, forever protecting their grand creation from harm.
