---
title: "The People vs. Nerevar Reborn"
reddit: 369wm2
author: Junoncross
date: 2015-05-17T16:39:59Z
---

Greetings good men and mer,   
   
I write to you from the offices of H'giss and Mortierre Law Offices in the Imperial City. We have been contracted by an anonymous benefactor to file suit against the person known to the court as The Nerevarine. Their past exploits known to the court prior to the events at Red Mountain, in that their personage did commit crimes enough to warrent incarceration.  
   
We are contacting you, as you are experts in the field.  Your services will be needed in the ascertaining of accountability for the events.   
  
The reason for this is that if it is found that The Nerevarine did not enact justice, the estate of the late royal family will be subject to suit for recompense of losses.   
  
Forthwith, the goal of this hearing will be to determine the following:  
  
Whether the Nerevarine was justified in his slaying of Almalexia, and possibly Vivec (since his disappearance was oddly timed with the Nerevarines departure from Tamriel.).  
  
Whether Azura is at any kind of fault for not preventing the destruction from the Oblivion Crisis and the later Eruption of Red Mountain. (A satellite of our firm in The Black Marsh has assured us that they intend to file suit against the Daedric Prince should accountability be layed there.)  
   
Whether Vivec's potential death was warrented by the evidence. In essense, was his potential slaying a murder or not.  
    
The evidence shall heretofore be laid, as far as it is known by these offices.  It welcomes any and all additions to that evidence.  
  
A prisoner is known to have been sent to Morrowind care of a ship sent at behest of the late emperor Uriel Septim VII, specifically due to a prophecy involving a savior figure in Dunmeri folklore.  The documentation we have specifically point out that the prisoner had the APPEARANCE of fulfilling these prophecies. Not necessarily that his late emininance believed that the prisoner was this savior. Because of this, it could be argued that the Emporer may have intended to supplant the lawful government of Morrowind with a foreign agent of dubious repute.   
  
It is known to the court that the prisoner later completed a list of tasks specifically to convince the Hlallu, Redoran, and Telvanni, as well as several now extinct ashlander tribes to their satisfaction that the prisoner was in fact Hortator and Nerevar Reborn (heretofore will be named Nerevarine).   
  
The actual divine status of the Nerevarine is not known with certainty.  If it is determined that the Nerevarine was not actually divine, and just a lucky brigand freed by irrational imperial decree. This does constitute fraud under imperial penal codes.   
  
Further, we do know that the personage known as Dagoth Ur, late leader of House Dagoth did have reservations about the validity of the Nerevarines divinity. Indeed, we have eye witness accounts from a creature known as an Ash Poet that was present during their conversations. As this creature can only repeat statements he has heard, and as far as we know, has no central identity of its own, we can assume its word is as good as any court stenographer.   
  
---  
  
On the topic of Azura: the court believes that malfeasance was commited by the Daedric Prince in its duties as the patron of prophecy.  
   
Antecedent to the events of Red Mountain that year, it has been known to meddle in mortal and immortal affairs alike and has displayed a preternatural ability to set in motion events that lead to a predicted outcome. Insofar as the court is concerned, Azura is cited as having prescience.   
  
In addition,  Azura has been cited under multiple publications over the years since Morrowinds first colonization by the Chimer as a patron Daedra to the early inhabitants.  In many accounts, the Daedric Prince itself has commented on its patronage of the Chimer and later Dunmer people.  Insofar as the court is concerned, Azura has self declared its intent to protect the peoples of Morrowind.  Indeed, as the events show in the Nerevarines defeat of Dagoth Ur show, the Daedric Prince was still patronizing Morrowind until that point.   
  
In this, it is arguable that Azura did in fact know that the Oblivion Crisis and the eruption of Red Mountain was imminent.   The record also shows no active or passive intent or actual warning of the Dunmer people against their doom at the hands of Mehrunes Dagon and later the forces of nature beneath Red Mountain. In this, to these offices, Azura has displayed Gross Negligence in its duties as protector of a realm, and indeed, complete unethical behavior in the face of preventable destruction. (The court does not attribute the fall of Baar Dau to Azura, as the prime force of that was committed by Sheogorath, and prior to this, according to testimony, this was a possibly a child of Vivec and Molag Bal. Hence would be under the jurisdiction of a family court.)  
  
---------  
  
Lastly, the disappearance of Vivec and the known slaying of Almalexia.  If precedents are indicators, the Nerevarine had already killed two weakly godlike beings in their travels (Dagoth Ur and Almalexia.).  Our benefactor has asked us to SPECULATE specifically, in the interest of shortening court costs in the future, whether the slaying of Vivec was a justified action.    
  
Known documentation previously known as the Apocrypha vis a vis a group previously known as the Dissident Priests accounts of the events of General Nerevars death as being at the hands of Vivec and fellow generals. Indeed, the ashlander tribes also had corroborated testimony witnessed by certain historians of the time. The Temple Cult at the time, attributes the death of Nerevar to his wounds suffered in battle against the Dwemer and later against Dagoth Ur himself.    
  
Supplementally, if the Nerevarine was not divine, then this could be considered unjustified murder under imperial code. And indeed it was brought up that if Vivec was capable of being killed, he would thus not be a god, and thusly that this would fall under mundane law and not under altercations between the supernatural.
  
These offices beg your indulgence with this request and thank you in advance for your participation.
  
-------  
  
 We have contracted with a local mage group known as "The Confluence" to ensure your speedy reply. The vellum this document is written on will expand with replies from other persons who the court has deemed expert in this matter. The cost of this has been covered by the anonymous benefactor previously mentioned. If your offices require billable hours for your time, please do not mark this correspondence with it, please send an invoice to H'giss and Mottierre Law Offices c/o Elven District, Imperial City, Cyrodiil via courier.
