---
title: "Wraithslayers Report #4819"
reddit: 36lp4o
author: RideTheLine
date: 2015-05-20T08:47:35Z
---

*7th of Midyear, 4E254*  

*Mrs. Dona Barretti, along with her close friend, Lewen Tul, filed a claim with us on the 4th of Midyear that her home had been infested by a, as she called it, "foul presence." She reported multiple occurrences of waking up to a man-shaped form next to her that would then emit horrific shrieking sounds. The room would also smell of sulfur.*  

*She also described objects being thrown across her house at random times, usually accompanied by the same sulfuric smell. She fears for her own safety, and local clergy were unable to determine the source of the presence. In her desperation, she contacted the Wraithslayers.*  

*We dispatched Pjotr Vekmann, R'amuzz S'tatnz, and Ergon Spegler to her home on the 5th of Midyear. Their divination spells immediately detected signs of supernatural activity, and they set up a field within the perimeter to draw out the spirit.*  

*The spirit was drawn to their magics, and they proceeded with the standard procedure by casting a powerful Soul Trap. However, the spirit was only enraged by this binding attempt, and lashed out. More beings entered the perimeter, and possessed both Barretti and Tul.*  

*Before any sort of cleansing could be performed, Barretti and Tul opened a gateway to Quagmire. This portal served as an entrance for a massive Daedroth that heralded itself as Gertzog and presented itself in a form that shifted between a beautiful Altmer female and a, as Spegler reported, "freaky man-baby.". The Wraithslayers were forced to cast a simultaneous Soul Trap to bind the demon to a specially prepared soul gem, an action that went against every warning they had previously received to never cast multiple Soul Traps simultaneously.*  

*The gamble miraculously payed off with only moderate damage to Barretti's property. The smaller beings were quickly removed, and the premises was cleansed. Evidence of a small Vaermina cult has been found, and shall be investigated shortly.*
