---
title: "A Letter Concerning The Dragonfires and The Oblivion Crisis"
reddit: 373ho6
author: Etienne_Marlon
date: 2015-05-24T15:06:54Z
---

Etienne Marlon, amateur historian
Chapel Street, Chorrol

24th of Second Seed

Distinguished Scholars:

My name is Etienne Marlon, amateur historian from Chorrol (well, by way of Wayrest) In studying recently over a fine cup of tea, a question came to me that I've not been able to shake.

It is often said that the Oblivion Crisis at the end of the Third Era was caused by the assassination of Emperor Uriel Septim VII and his sons at the hands of the Mythic Dawn. Without a ruler Dragonborn ruler on the Ruby Throne, the Dragonfires went out and the shield between Mundus and Oblivion fell, allowing Mehrunes Dagon to begin his invasion. I do not dispute the occurrence of these events, but I would like to pose to you the question that has been stuck in my mind.

From my research, it is my understanding that the Dragonfires were a kind of gift from Akatosh to Alessia, made from his blood and intended to guard Mundus from the threat of Oblivion. In the book, Akatosh vows to hold shut the gates of Oblivion: “So long as the Blood of the Dragon runs strong in her rulers, the glory of the Empire shall extend in unbroken years;” however, the official bloodline of Alessia seems to end with the Empress Saint herself. Is it possible that I'm missing an heir? 

If not, that would imply that Akatosh was willing to hold to his promise for *any* ruler on the Ruby Throne, as three separate dynasties existed before his protection failed. Note also that when Jagar Tharn held sway over Cyrodiil during the Simulacrum, the fires did not stop burning, despite Tharn himself somehow finding and securing a spot in Oblivion for the Emperor. All of this ultimately begs the question that has been stuck in my mind:

**Why was the assassination of Emperor Uriel Septim VII and his sons the breaking point, and why did the existence of Martin Septim not constitute a continuation of the Septim lineage such that the fires would remain lit?**

There are a few possible answers that I've come up with, but each of them has a fairly easy rebuttal. Perhaps it's because Martin never had an opportunity to relight the Dragonfires, per Reman tradition. But it seems irresponsible and dangerous to leave the fate of Mundus up to a ceremony.

Perhaps it's because Mankar Camoran, an Altmer, held the Amulet of Kings, which made it “lost." But it seems unlikely that a usurper seizing the Amulet should be able to open the gate, especially when a coup carried out by cultists is the most likely way in which an incursion from Oblivion would occur. Perhaps it was simply a matter of destiny or timing, that any threat from Oblivion would have gotten through, and Mehrunes Dagon happened to have an army assembled? This is perhaps the best answer, as I have found no obvious rebuttal.

Please, fellow scholars, do not mistake my intentions here: I do not mean to call the word of Time Dragon into doubt or cast uncertainty on his protection, but surely there must be something else at play here, something that would cause this brief opening of the gates of Oblivion. I write to ask if any of you have any insight on why the Oblivion Crisis was allowed to happen when similar circumstances in past eras caused no such chaos. I'm a scholar in hobby only, and so I was hoping one of you might be able to spare some of your infinite wisdom for a curious Breton.

Yours,

Etienne

PS - It might also be worth noting that a similar Daedric incursion was seen during the Interregnum. There may be similarities between the two events, but my knowledge of the Second Era is limited (although it grows every day).
