---
title: "We ARE Lorkhan. Realms, their inhabitants, and their aspects."
reddit: 377l09
author: twilot_spankle
date: 2015-05-25T15:12:08Z
---

Dear sister Ilindu Orethan, priestess of the Tribune,

It has come to my attention that, upon Nerevar Reborn's journey, he had met with some interesting people. Before diving into the heart of Red Mountain to fight the Sharmat, it seems Nerevar had met with a man named [Wulf](http://uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Wulf). He claims that this man was an aspect of Tiber Septim, and at first, I had my doubts....but then more events came to pass.

He then freed a prisoner who had claimed to be an aspect of Zenithar, [Jon Hawker](http://uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Jon_Hawker)

He then claims to have met an aspect of Mara by the name of [Ama Nin](http://uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Ama_Nin).

It was then that I started to wonder, why is it that, if Nerevar Reborn's claims are true, are the great divines not coming to Nirn themselves to assist us.

I then thought back to the Oblivion Crisis, where Akatosh himself had visited Nirn to banish Mehrunes Dagon (curse his wretched name) back to Oblivion. Other reports say that it too was a mere aspect.

So it seems that the divines themselves have never truly appeared on Nirn. I then remembered the old tales of the Khajiit, claiming that the Masser Secunda, and Nirn itself are the living bodies of Lorkhan.

It is then that I came upon this startling realization: the planets themselves are the realms of the the divines, and therefore the realms ARE the divines themselves. This can also be applied to Daedric Princes. You are not inside Coldharbour, you are inside Molag Bal HIMSELF, Moonshadow IS Azura herself. We are not within the realm of Nirn, but within Lorkhan HIMSELF. We live inside of the trickster god's body. 

Dear Brother, what are your thoughts on this? It worries me to think that we are living inside of the body of the trickster god himself, and that, as products of nature, we are grown from his body, and that we ourselves, theoretically ARE Lorkhan.

~Remanus Valius, brother of the Tribune
