---
title: "Submission from the Athenaeum Telvanni: A Map of Haafingar Hold"
reddit: 38i9y2
author: RetharSaryon
date: 2015-06-04T11:56:43Z
---

**[17:50:08]** Incoming: Dreamsleeve Transmission


**[17:50:08]** AUTH- ___ Searching nymic...


**[17:50:09]** AUTH- ___ Couldn't resolve nymic; tribunalating local dreamsleeve cluster location 


**[17:50:09]** AUTH- ___ Your local dreamsleeve cluster location is ALD.VEHK.NIRN; please state your intentions
...


**[18:05:11]** &lt;Wealth Beyond Measure, Servitor of TESLORE. I am Urvel Nilvon, Dreamsleeve Logician of the Telvannic Athenaeum. The Secret Sequence is ________. Requesting permission to transmit&gt;


**[18:05:12]** AUTH- ___ Permission granted 


**[18:06:42]** &lt;Transmitting message&gt;


**Extramundic Dreamsleeve Transmission #ET1**


**Priority:** Pertinent


&amp;nbsp;


**Extramundic Publication of Athenaeic Documents Act**


As part of the on-going somniculization efforts of the Great Telvanni Athenaeum, the Master Librarian has decided to legalize the sensible publication of strategically irrelevant works and documents for the maintenance of our extramundic partnerships. The Extramundic Publication of Athenaeic Documents Act would formerly have been overruled by the iniquitous and restrictive Imperial Censorship Laws, but due to the reservations in the Act of Ash Restitution anno 4E 32, which was ratified both by the Imperial Consul and the Grand Council of Morrowind, there can be no juridical justifications for any incriminations on grounds of the aforementioned act.


Thus, intending to encourage transplanetary communication and scholarly exchange, the Athenaeum, greatest library in all Telvannis, hereby, as an act of goodwill, discloses **Mappai Solitudi**, *the Map of Solitude*, earliest work of the famous Nordic cartographer Vulf Bear-Hat. 


It was commissioned in 3E 393 in celebration of the inauguration of King Thiann of Solitude. Along with the impressive and elaborate map of Haafingar Hold, the work also includes a comprehensive index of all locations, which, listing the toponymic meaning, history, demographics, marks and peculiarities of each and every location on the map, provides a unique glimpse into life in the late Septim Empire.


&amp;nbsp;


Wealth beyond Measure,
Master Librarian Telvanni Rethar Saryon


&amp;nbsp;


&gt; [Map of Haafingar Hold](http://sta.sh/01g425h85ze4) ([Extra-zoomable version](http://sta.sh/0lm01eai66c)) 


&gt; &amp;nbsp;


&gt; **Title:** A Map Depicting the Kingdom of Solitude and the Kingdoms Around It. It Was Ordered by Thianus, King of Solitude. Designed by Vulf Bear-Hat.


&gt; **Author:** Vulf Bear-Hat


&gt; **Category:** Map


&gt; **Language:** Toponyms in [Haafingarsk](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gOhzFBrMKuzDKh-3l5zrekjGCKBYe6MeCOHJVLdaNkE/edit?usp=sharing) and text in [Old Cyrodiilic](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/hrafnirs-languages-nordic#Old%20Cyrodiilic)


&gt; Behold the Kingdom of Haafingar, the Golden Heart of Skyrim! Here the exquisite customs of the Imperial Province meets the proud culture of the Nords in a unique blend that cannot be seen anywhere else in Tamriel. It is a kingdom of contrasts. Atop the magnificent natural arch of Høginhvalf rests the beautiful city of Solitude. Among the lofty, banner-adorned towers of this majestic city, cultured nobles and wealthy merchants dressed in moth-silk can be found conversing in perfect Cyrodiilic and Nibenean, while in the pine forests of the snow-clad western mountains and along the hazardous, freezing northern fjords, old-fashioned, full-bearded, strong Nordic warriors can be found doing hunting, fishing and other traditional work, following the unchanged customs inherited from their ancestors who in Merethic times came sailing from across the icy Sea of Ghosts in their great longboats.


&gt; The map before thee depicts this kingdom, rich in culture and history, in the form it held in the 393^rd year of the Third Era.


&gt; A complete index of all the locations on the map will follow in separate transmissions.


&gt; &amp;nbsp;


[Appendix I: Historia Solitudi](http://as.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/38oypr/mappa_solitudi_appendix_i_historia_solitudi/)


&gt; [Index I: The City of Solitude](https://as.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3d10ti/index_mappai_solitudi_the_city_of_solitude/)


&gt; [Index II: The Island of Volkihar](https://as.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3d4iog/index_mappai_solitudi_the_island_of_volkihar/)


&gt; [Index III: The Norinvaar Hundred](https://as.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3d8jng/index_mappai_solitudi_the_norinvaar_hundred/)


&gt; [Index IV: Sovereignty of Luftraan](https://as.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3dfkbl/index_mappai_solitudi_sovereignty_of_luftraan/)


&gt; [Index V: Lordship of Volthaal](https://as.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3dq519/index_mappai_solitudi_the_lordship_of_volthaal/)


&gt; &amp;nbsp;



