---
title: "Cultural Phenomena of Tamriel: The Stormcloak Rebellion"
reddit: 38khmg
author: ddaybones
date: 2015-06-04T20:27:16Z
---

Imperial Anthropologist Varlo Jannicus, Imperial Library

Dated: 4th Era 202

Many here in the Heartland will look north at the rebellion of Ulfric Stormcloak, the Jarl of Windhelm, as just another case of ambition grown too large as he covets the throne of the High King of Skyrim. Perhaps this is correct judgement, the rebellion will certainly be a drain on the Empire’s manpower and resources, which could be going towards our defense against the waxing power of the Aldmeri Dominion. Yet while this author certainly does not promote this revolt in anyway, it does present an interesting look into the growing Nordic attitude and worldview. This Stormcloak rebellion is merely a symptom of a much deeper movement inside the Nordic consciousness.

Early Nordic history from nearly the beginning seems to set the Nords versus the world. They believed that Kyne herself (Kynareth to a Heartlander) breathed life into them atop the Throat of the World, the tallest mountain in Tamriel. Hence the name “Children of the Sky.” Whether this is true or not isn’t the point, because it holds a very symbolic place in the Nordic conciseness, they view Skyrim as their birthright and ancestral home, long before any elves arrived. Regardless of the origin story, the proto-Nords eventually found themselves in Atmora where they remained for many generations. Through recent scholarship we now know that these Atmorans worshiped animals as avatars of the gods, chief amongst these being the dragons. The Dragon Cult was founded originally in Atmora and would come to the shores of Tamriel as immigrants slowly began their journey across the Sea of Ghosts. 

During this slow but continuous process of returning to Tamriel the early Nords established many cities along the coast, the most famous of them being Saarthal. These Atmorans encountered the mer that now inhabited Skyrim, the Snow Elves. Relations at first seemed to be cordial but especially friendly. Yet for a number of reasons it became clear to the Snow Elves that this constant flow of people to their shores wouldn’t end. Scholars also point at something in Saarthal itself that may have prompted the infamous Night of Tears. Some think that this action occurred only in Saarthal itself, but I believe it is safe to assume that this sort of culling took place anywhere a human settlement could be found, Saarthal is remembered only because the razing was so complete. Atmoran settlement in Tamriel was suddenly and violently put at extreme risk.

Now the stage of prehistoric history was set for the legendary figure of Ysgramor to enter. What Ysgramor and his Five Hundred Companions did was nothing short of securing the fate of an entire people and dooming another to devastation. The fabled Return holds nearly religious importance in Nordic history. This is nothing less that the Nords returning to their rightful homeland, god given to them and securing it for themselves against the wiles of the elves. This is where one could point out that the antagonism of the Nords versus mer enters written history. Now whether one views the Return as a rightful conquest or a genocide of an entire race is entirely dependent upon on opinion. What is fact is that this militant movement secured Skyrim for Nordic rule for nearly 4000 years. 

4th Era 175. The Great War is ended through the signing of the White Gold Concordat. One of the stipulations of this treaty is the banning of Talos worship. In Skyrim this outlawing of worship of their native son was viewed with particular scorn. The Thalmor now had the protection of Imperial law as they were able to root out what they saw as heresy. What we have here is Elven authority being exercised in the borders of Skyrim, something that hasn’t been done since mythic times. The growing power of the Aldmeri Dominion is also a sign of the changing times. It is in this atmosphere of the waxing of Elven power and the waning of man’s that the Stormcloak rebellion is occurring. While ambition might carry their leader, the underpinnings of this revolution are founded on the lost pride of a people, of their inability to decide their own fate and left at the mercy of another. Particularly malicious is the fact that it is mer who seem to be steering the fate of Tamriel. The days of Ysgramor, and the Return are long gone. A new status quo is emerging and now these rebels of the frozen north are set of reversing it, because they remember tales of their forefathers, tales of heroism, honor and bravery, and they are set on reclaiming that vision of their world.
