---
title: "Recipe: Daedra Roast"
reddit: 39d44p
author: Kestrellius
date: 2015-06-10T23:27:03Z
---

By: Thoril of Skingrad

It may be known to some that the heart of a dremora or clannfear, in addition to its uses in alchemy and in the creation of Daedric armors, is also prized as a delicacy due to its tender quality and richness of flavor. While some races, and individuals with strong stomachs, may prefer to simply eat the heart raw, most in the Mannish provinces with the coin to easily acquire these ingredients will find a cooked dish far more palatable. As a result, I've elected to draw up a recipe. Be warned that it requires a number of rare ingredients, and finding enough just for a single serving may be difficult. Nonetheless, what you'll need is as follows:

- 1 heart of daedra
- 1 portion frost salts
- 2 bunches frost mirriam
- 1 handful of strawberries
- 1 bunch grapes
- 1 orange
- 1 bottle wine (alto or vintage preferred)
- 1 goblet of lichor
- 1 portion marshmerrow greens

You'll also need an open fire, a standard oven, and a number of pots or pans.

Now, daedra's heart is very sweet for a red meat, which is why we're using so much fruit, as well as the frost salts -- the key to this recipe is the contrast between sweet and savory taste, as well as between hot and cold. Consider meat taken with cabbage or other greens -- the typical moistness of the greens offsets the hot cooked meat.

I imagine that typically, those wishing to make this dish will be obtaining their daedra hearts from alchemy shops. However, there are some considerations to make, particularly if you're planning to retrieve the ingredients yourself. Aside from the obvious (bring some armor, duck, don't get trapped in the Deadlands, etc.), you need to make sure that you use a high-quality blade to cut the heart free, or you'll risk mangling the arteries. I recommend an elven knife, or better. Likewise, check the samples when buying. If the heart was sloppily cut, and the arteries are frayed at the edge, don't purchase it. It'll be nearly useless to you. You'll also want to use a tool of some kind -- a blade works, but you could also use a blunt object like a mace -- to cut or clear away the muscular walls inside the heart. You need a nice open cavity for what you'll be doing in a moment.

The first step is to prepare the heart using the frost salts. Divide the salts into two equal portions. First, pour one half into the cavity through the arteries. Peel the orange, and stuff it, along with roughly half of the grapes, into the center, such that it's nicely packed within the salts.

Then, coat the exterior of the heart with the remaining salts. It's best to rub them into the meat somewhat. Oh, and don't be concerned if you're getting daedra blood everywhere. That's to be expected, and it won't harm the flavor. It'll be dealt with in a moment anyway.

Now, for the first stage of the cooking. Place the prepared heart over an open flame. A grill works, but I'd advise against a spit -- it's rather likely to damage the fruit. While the heart roasts, pour the lichor over it at a small trickle, barely more than a drip. Be sure to turn it over from time to time, and ensure that the lichor is hitting the whole surface evenly.

By the time you're out of lichor, the heart should be done cooking. It'll be easy to tell, because the frost crystals embedded in the flesh will spark and pop throughout the process. Once they start to die down, you're all set.

The salts will have kept the fruit cold during the cooking process, but by now they'll have largely evaporated, leaving a sort of icy residue along the interior surface that will continue to partially insulate the fruit during the next stage. The fruit itself should still be fresh, but somewhat melted, leaking juice into the heart.

You're almost done with the hard bit. Set the heart in a pan or bowl with high sides, and pour the wine over it. The meat should be about half-submerged in the liquid. Then, place the dish in your oven, at a low temperature. This part of the cooking process will take some time, usually between two and three hours.

When it's done, the wine will have evaporated, leaving the heart moist but not dripping. Place it on a platter. Sprinkle the marshmerrow, the strawberries, and the remaining grapes with water, and arrange. The dish is now ready to serve.

The fruit will now be fully crystallized, mixing with the remains of the frost salts, with the juices sweetening the flesh. The meat itself should have expanded to tighten around the reduced mass, leaving virtually no empty space within the cavity.

The heart can be eaten whole, or sliced and eaten with a fork. It's up to you, or your client. Enjoy!
