---
title: "An Overview of 9th Era Hist and their place in the Aurbis"
reddit: 39gj0c
author: ASAMANNAMMEDNIGEL
date: 2015-06-11T15:53:48Z
---

The Traveler's Guide to 9th Era Aurbis
---------------------

------------------------

*Chapter 2, Part III: The Hist**



*Population:* Indeterminate


*Aurbical Location:* Undisclosed location w/in the Aurbis

*Capital:* The World Tree


*Population Composition:* Precise numbers are indeterminate. Technically speaking, population consists of Hist Trees, and Argonians.



**A Very Brief History**:

Presumably, the Hist left Nirn proper with the rest of the surviving mortals during Landfall. This is legend of course, as what little history there is of that time is sparse, and does not concern itself with the Argonians or the Hist.

Two main conflicting reports touch on the Hist during the 5th era. One states that the trees lifted off the face of Nirn, and landed on the far side of Masser, hidden from the prying eyes and wars of the dunmer.

Another states that deals were made with various daedra, granting them harbor in realms of oblivion.

Regardless of their enigmatic past, the Hist 'returned' after centuries of inactivity, much to the chagrin of the Jills. In the 7th era. Three planet size massives of Hist trees appeared in oblivion, the largest of which is dubbed the World tree. They almost immediately went on an all out offensive against the Jills. The war has been long and protracted, with no real victor in sight.

**Dealing with the Hist**:

Avoid if possible. If for whatever reason you find yourself on a World Tree... find your way off as soon as possible. The Hist and their Argonian servitors have little heed for temporally minded interlopers. You will either never be seen again, or become an Argonian yourself.


**Political Position within the Aurbis**:

A stalwart, enigmatic entity. Save for their skirmishes with the Jills, they have very limited (almost non existant) interactions with the other races. They are a force to be reckoned with, and as a result of their unconventional methods and tactics are generally avoided by the other factions.

**Interesting Facts**:

-Weaponized Mathematics. Mirror Logicians are mere charlatans in the face of Hist Wizardry.

-The Hist are actually a form of sentient trees

-No sense of time.
