---
title: "Phenomenology of Man"
reddit: 39qnt0
author: neknotes
date: 2015-06-13T20:31:48Z
---

*Another in-game thing for the #ThalMod. This one is quite improvised and careless, not unlike some of the famous Lorkhanic endeavors in Tamriel.*

---------------------------

**Phenomenology of Man**

[This book is tattered and charred as if hastily removed from a bonfire. It seems to be a collection of speeches from a couple of different figures. With each extract you feel a name on the tip of your tongue, but you cannot quite place any in context.]

~~~

“… The Aldmer, our enemies, think differently. Make no mistake. They believe in the fallacy of an objective Divine Spirit. It was they who first coined the term Love. Their Psijic Theory was the seed of Tamrielic society, their trees sprout across the continent and we have done nought to stop their germination! Where is the fire? The Aldmeri faith is strong and ready to justify both life and death, but their faith has a limit, which is …”

♦

“… This brings us to Man. This brings us to my Truth, which is your Truth, for I am more vulgar than Man. I say, turn your head forward and stop looking behind you! The idea of the subgradient, the notion that divinity is rooted in our pre-Convention past, is the poison of society. We have already seen its natural extension, in the Deep Ones and their Silence, and look at what that did to us. Why have we not learned from that? Why have we adopted the practice of misinterpretation so readily?

We are not degenerate. We split ourselves into pieces. We grow complex and numbered, that we may build another Infinity from ourselves. You know what you hear, and let no other demon that calls itself Truth have its way with you. All language is based on meat, all music is based on sinew, let us Dance!”

♣

“… But what is the Numidium? What else can we call it? Between my friends and enemies, I have heard a hoard of technical terminology and affectionate nicknames alike: Black Silence, Big Stompy, Nihilism Made Manifest, Brass Tower, NO, and others much more absurd.

I call it the myth of the natural mindset: Canon. And it is from this myth that I will impose my Truth on Tamriel!”

♥

“The Dwemer are not nihilists. They are not trying to deny anything; on the contrary, they have firmer beliefs in existence than any of us. They believe in a whole world out there. They believe in gods. Most of all, they believe in an objective reality. It is Dwemer faith that shapes the Numidium, not Dwemer reasoning, not Dwemer empirical evidence. I have the royal mantle; I will shape the Numidium my own way.”

♦

“ … To describe it in the scope of a symphony, the Dwemer believe a rock falling to the bottom of a cavern, too deep for anyone on the surface to hear it, still produces a Tone. I can’t hear it. What I hear matters. What I can hear, I can Dance to.”

♣

“… They came to a leap of intuition that we all experience at some point: the Dream. They recognised the nature of the Aurbis, and it is the philosophical decision that came after that determined their fate. They decided to wake up. But then they could not.

Is it still a Dream when you cannot wake up?

You may recognise the Dwemer mindset in yourself, and you would be right to do so …”

♥

-------------------------------------------------

*Edit: Tweaked formatting.*
