---
title: "Tales of Cyrodiil, entry 2 - Fine Wines of Skingrad"
reddit: 3aoo46
author: Cyclenophus
date: 2015-06-22T06:25:59Z
---

*The following is the second in a series of documents written early in the 4th era, during the brief reign of Thules the Gibbering and before the coup led by Titus Mede I to secure the Imperial City for his own dynasty. This was to be part of a new Pocket Guide to the Empire, but like other iterations it was never finished or published. I include it in this document for the Eternal Empress' eyes and those of her advisers so that we can better understand the political climate of Cyrodiil during this ancient time period. ~ Legate Cyclenophus*

-------------------------------------------------------------------

*"I don't know much about Gaston Surilie, but I help him drink his wine. He's always got some mighty fine wine."* Overheard from a citizen of Skingrad at the marketplace

Visitors to Cyrodiil are often amazed at the beautiful, green countryside of the West Weald. Pamphlets and books about Cyrodiil often call the fertile Nibenay Basin the "breadbasket of Tamriel" and characterize the Colovian West as a relatively barren, sparsely populated area comparatively. It's true that the majority of famous Cyrodiilic cuisine originates in the East, but Skingrad's fine wines, cheeses and tomatoes are world-famous and have earned their reputation at home and abroad.

As of the writing of this pamphlet, the two most famous and well-respected vintners in Skingrad County are Gaston Surilie and Tamika. Gaston's business is called Surilie Brothers wine, and was founded by him and his now-deceased brother Davide, who was tragically murdered a decade a go during the turbulent times of the Oblivion Crisis. The town guard never commented much on his untimely demise, but it can safely be surmised that many violent cultists were active at this time period in Skingrad, and he was a likely symbolic target as a successful businessman.

In either event, Tamika and Surilie Brothers wines still dominate the market in Skingrad County, and are often imported to the Provinces (Summerset Isles has currently put a trade embargo against Imperial goods, even these famous wines. They had previously been one of the biggest foreign markets.) and enjoyed in many places here at home, including the Imperial Palace itself, and the courts of the Counts and Countesses. The finest vintages of the Surilie brand are the 415 vintage and the far rarer, more expensive 399 vintage. This highly sought after wine is considered the finest in all Tamriel, and wealthy wine enthusiasts from all over Tamriel pay huge sums of money to get a single bottle.

The Tamika vintages from the same years also fetch quite the price and are said to be top quality wines. It's rumored that there's a bit of magic involved in the vineyards of both these enterprises, but the grape growers and wine makers of Skingrad swear it's the fertile soil and the climate itself - gifts from Kynareth and Zenithar. It is true that the West Weald is particularly blessed with a temperate climate nearly year-round, with mild summers and winters. This climate is also perfect for the growth of tomatoes and tomato products, and for the raising of sheep. The famous Bosmeri shepherd Uuras enthusiastically tends to his herd and is the top manufacturer of Sheep Cheese in Cyrodiil.

Count Hassildor is a beloved fixture of Skingrad and has been for decades, but he is rarely seen in public. It's rumored that he is quite ill in his advanced age, and sustained by sorcery, but this has not hurt his popularity in the least. For lending his troops at the Battle of Bruma and helping to close the Oblivion Gates of Skingrad by sending his finest champion, the Count has survived the turmoil of the transition to the Fourth Era, and still enjoys a popular rule of the godly, industrious citizens of Skingrad, who often can be seen at chapel giving thanks to Julianos and the other Divines. Indeed, the popularity of Julianos and literacy is apparent in Skingrad County, where reading is quite popular and the bookseller in town keeps her shelves well-stocked. It's not uncommon to see the literate, well-fed citizens of Skingrad enjoying a good book over a cup of wine, a slice of sheep's cheese and one of Salmos' finely baked breads or sweetrolls.

 The Fighters Guild enjoyed success in the years following the Crisis as well, teaming up with knightly orders to clear the caves and hills of the West Weald of the last remnants of the Goblin tribes, who have retreated north and west, deeper into Colovia. Sadly, the Mages Guild hall stands empty currently, as this organization has lost its favor and Imperial Charter, but a wealthy organization called the Synod will apparently be moving in soon and providing many similar services, although their membership dues are reputed to be higher and their ranks are more exclusive. In any event, the hardships that have befallen Bravil and Leyawiin have not yet tainted Skingrad, although a notorious bandit king named Titus Mede is mustering his forces to the west, near ruined Kvatch. You can be well-assured, gentle reader, that the mighty heroes of Skingrad will resist his advances, just as Rislav the Righteous fought off the wicked, tyrannical Alessians in ages past. The Empire stands strong and resolute. Praise be to Emperor Thules and the Nine!

