---
title: "Black Horse Courier: Renrijra Smuggling Ring Thwarted!"
reddit: 3c5z50
author: Iceflame542
date: 2015-07-05T03:37:34Z
---

**SPECIAL EDITION!**


**RENRIJRA SMUGGLING RING THWARTED!**

In a joint effort by Special Inquisitor Drels Theran of Bravil and the Census and Excise Coast Guard, a Renrijra Pirate ring was thwarted! A fleet of Excise Cutters From Leyawiin’s Coast Guard division successfully overwhelmed a ship of moon-sugar smugglers of the infamous Renrijra Maor!

&amp;nbsp;

Captain Decentius Opsius, overseer of Leyawiin's station, offered the Courier information on the Coast Guard’s activities in the Topal:


"Our duty is sacred. The law is sacred. Surely you’ve seen the statue? Torval the Pilot, Father of the Niben and patron saint of Leyawiin. Charter (sic) of the Niben and the Topal. It is with his inspiration that the Coast Guard serves to protect Torval’s waters. The recent success over the Renrijra is a symbol of the Empire’s might and prowess over those who seek to break its blessed directive.”

The Coast Guard’s encounter with the traitors ended in battle on-board the vessel. A casualty report is not yet available, but Courier information requests are pending. 


The Imperial Coast Guard, managed under the administrative office of Census and Excise, has proved vital in combating smuggling throughout the Empire; combating the Skooma trade prevalent in the Topal Sea and Morrowind. Strategic placement of coast guard stations and the deployment of Excise cutters prove a powerful show of force against illegal rings of Moon Sugar and unlicensed artifacts rightfully owned by the Emperor Uriel Septim himself, chartered to none but the Imperial Archeological Society for transport. In the advent of the threat of the Renrijra Krin and a strengthened Topal counter-force from the annexation of the Trans-Niben, the Coast Guard is careful to check the contents of ships bound for Leyawiin and Cyrodiil City. While these stops are a minor inconvenience to honest merchants, this service of the Coast Guard is of utmost importance to preserve Imperial law and value. Hopeful eyes look to the success of the Imperial administration to quell the dangerous Skooma trade and the travesty it brings.
