---
title: "A Theory upon Bromjunaar, and Nordic Ruins in General"
reddit: 3d59zb
author: SorenxD123
date: 2015-07-13T17:09:53Z
---

*By Sorenti Early-Fire, Arch-Mage of the College of Winterhold, 4E 201*
***
When I first set foot in the ruins of Labyrinthian, or Bromjunaar, which was its original name, one of the first things I noticed that a lot of it didn't seem like it belonged underground. 

For instance, there was broad walkways almost like roads we see in modern cities. And I encountered the skeleton of a dragon, buried in a traditional Nordic burial mound. This is very suspicious, since there's no way a dragon the size of that of the one that was buried there could have been towed to there if the city was underground. The doors and corridors you have to go through to get to the locations is simply too narrow. 

Granted, it could be thought that the ancient Nords of the Dragon cult cut the dragon to pieces to lay it to rest underground, but the fact that the skeleton was so intact that it attacked me the instance I walked into its hall deem that theory suspicious to me. 

And then there's the fact that the loft of the ruins seems to be of big lumps of mountain that seems to have collapsed on top of the city, rather than an unbroken, solid mass of rock. 

So here's my proposal of why a lot of the ancient city of Bromjunaar is in the state that it is today:

The Tongues of the Dragon War used the Thu'um to make the surrounding mountains fall upon the city, for it to surrender.

Think about it. It all makes sense, doesn't it? It would be very logical to yell at the mountains at the time to bury huge parts of the capital of the Dragon Cult in seconds, instead of launching a siege that would last who knows how long, or make a direct attack at the wall, which would undoubtedly cause the loss of many lives. 

Think about that, dear reader, next time you venture down in an ancient Nordic Ruin!

