---
title: "The 72 Khajiiti Arts of Claw and Tail Mastered by Do’stiin"
reddit: 3db7a6
author: TuMadreEsMiCorazon
date: 2015-07-14T22:36:48Z
---

###The 72 Khajiiti Arts of Claw and Tail Mastered by Do’stiin###

There are many popular and known Khajiiti arts of claw and tail. Yet the popular do not scratch the surface on the extent of Khajiiti hand-to-hand mastery. There exists numberless lesser-known forms. The most prolific of all Masters: Do’stiin was said to have mastered 72 separate arts. The following is a list of those arts in no particular order, as is tradition.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Of course, Do’stiin had mastered “The big three” as they have come to be known.] **Goutfang**.  **Whispering Claw**.  **Rawlith Khaj**, (including its many known forms: Rain, Sand, Wind, Sun, Storm, and Two-Moons-Dance.)

**Ma-Do’Do (The Unskilled Warrior)** : whose seemingly innocuous attacks will eventually overwhelm the enemy.   **Yeb Ja’khajiit (Chubby kitten)** : where a rotund stomach is turned deadly weapon.  **Forro-Dra (The Chiding Mother)** : whose viscous assault will take far longer to heal than ordinary wounds.

 **Thji’var (The Moon Drunk)** : where intoxicants are consumed to give oneself an unpredictability in battle.  **Sleep Pouncer** : a defensive method said to be effective even when asleep.  **Stripe-Collecters** : mainly focused on pulling the mane and pelt of their opponent.

 **Twin Claws** : A method focused on confusing one’s opponent through use of an identical twin Khajiit.(note: only usable by someone with an identical twin)  **Faint Feint** : main tactics include pretending to be unconscious until your adversary lets their guard down. **The low Hanging Fruit**: whose attacks are only effective on male opponents.  **Teenage Mock Mock Turtle (TMMT)** : There are but a few remaining practitioners of this art, as it relies on the shell of a teenage Mock Turtle to be worn as armor. 

 **Ghost Warrior** : A controversial art which involves dying and returning as a ghost that is invulnerable to your opponents attacks. (Note:Only works once.) **El’toro** : involves mesmerizing your opponent using an infuriating cloth.  **Moon Shoes** :  Khajiit-powered anti-gravity art which chiefly performs strikes from the air.  

 **Redundancy** : which is unique in that it involves punching people.  **All-Meow** : which involves flashy showmanship to intimidate your opponent.  **The tickler** : A surprisingly effective art where one tickles the opponent into submission.

 **The Rocky** : Involves getting hit so many times that the opponent eventually wears themselves out.  **Sweet Licorice** : Uses the tail of the Khajiit in a whip-like fashion.  **Spin-Doctor** : an art which disorients the enemy through spinning tactics. 

 **The People’s Elbow** : a martial art designed specifically for Khajiiti amputees.  **De-Scaler Moon** : A martial art developed to combat dragons.  **Succumb by purrs** : a method who’s strikes don’t preceed pain, but enjoyment for both parties. 

 **Splitting the difference** : an art designed specifically to combat an enemy holding a banana. (Significance has been lost to the ages).  **Just the tip** : Focused on besting those with long-reaching spears.  **Mon’toy’ah** : which can only be learned by a son seeking to avenge his father. 

 **Tai-Chi** : which is considered relatively useless even by its practitioners.  **Coat-a-Turn** : which involves identifying the winning team so that you can join their side.  **The 8-fold Ways of the Hidden Masters** : which remain a relative mystery, but probably aren’t as great as they sound.

**Mane Event** : one of many styles taught only to the Mane by the Moons. **Finishing Move** : an art designed to best opponents in a single strike. **Moth Beast** : a style designed around cutting off your own vision to improve your other senses.

**Flatu’lens** : years of bowel mastery allow the user to produce noxious fumes to drive off enemies.  **Ma’champ**  : a hypothetical style developed in-case the user ever grows an additional pair of arms.  **Sticks and Stones** : a fall-back style in case a warrior suffers broken bones. 

 **Ja’Kee Chan** : an art that was developed specifically to awe onlookers.  **Ta’N-go** : an art that’s more of a dance than it is a combat style.  **Crypt Tonight** : a method of dispatching opponents invulnerable to standard attacks. 

 **Flipping the Bird** : a method to defeat enemies capable of flight.  **Infinite Loop** : a style used to defeat dwarven automatons.  **By the horns** : A method initially developed to defeat minotaurs, but later evolved into a philosophy for life. 

 **Midas Touch** : the art developed by the legendary adventurer Do’Midas specifically to earn his fortune.  **Fu’Shigi** : A forbidden art which uses a sigil stone to fuel mystical movements.  **Hindsight** : a method which can defeat all others; only works in theory, though. 

 **Meta Gaming** : a method used to maximize ones effectiveness in combat.  Very dull and tedious.  **Reload** : an art said to utterly prevent loss in all situations, though it has never been witnessed.  **Loaded Pockets** : A method that is pure offense, opting instead to consume massive quantities of potions to heal mid-battle. 

 **Ma’med A’Li** : A method of combating insects.  **Ty Son** : A style where biting your opponent is standard practice.  **Silva** : an art that focuses on dodging your opponents attacks.

 **The Wave** : a method used to fight underwater (Note: more effective against Dreugh than Argonians).  **Cobra Kai** : whose leg sweeps are the stuff of legends. **Preying Mantis** : an art everyone agrees looks ridiculous. 

 **Hand Solo** : A style which capitalizes on attacking FIRST.  **Moon Walking** : a method which appears to be attacking one direction, but is truly attacking in the opposite.  **Star Craft** : a method that requires precise micro-management of every part of your body.  **Law Suit**: an art  focused on capitalizing upon the mistakes of others.

