---
title: "Telvanni Separatists - 4. Census"
reddit: 3e1o25
author: Hazash_
date: 2015-07-21T07:16:50Z
---

Entry Four - 7th of Second Seed, 4E 210

“Also contained within the ruins is a by-monthly census listing every member of the Separatists and their respective rank, race and current physical condition. The census covers only the time in which we know they operated, beginning in Last Seed of 579 and ending in Morning Star of 583 – one month before the other records in the tomb end.

The census listings begin two months before the records of Dark Anchor takedowns begin. I suspect that in the time between Last Seed and Frostfall of 579, the original Separatists were occupied with liberating the Argonians.

As of 2E 580; the Separatists – including the Scales of Sithis - consisted of around one hundred Dunmer, several hundred Argonians and a handful of Nord mercenaries. Surely the ruins could not have housed them all.

If this ruin was the Separatists’ only refuge, we must beg the question of how large these ruins truly are. Perhaps they are more vast than anticipated - even as I write, the miners are continuing to discover more corridors in the tombs.

Very few Dunmer and Argonians appear to have been recruited after 2E 579: this would suggest that at least three-hundred Separatists were enlisted during the exodus to Solstheim. If true, the Separatists may well have liberated a substantial majority of the Telvanni-enslaved Argonians across Morrowind: an impressive feat to say the least.

My suspicions regarding Milvera and Vakamo were true. They were indeed leaders and founders of the Separatists. Interestingly, the two were siblings. The census indicates that neither perished by the end of the Separatists’ known history.

The leader of the Scales of Sithis was known as ‘Sunder-Scales.’ This Argonian warrior was also a leader of the Separatists. He too survived to the end of Sun’s Dawn of 583.

If the Separatists did indeed return to the Telvanni Isles in Heartfire of 2E 581, it would be here that they suffered the most losses. According to the census, almost two-hundred Separatists were killed in this month. Vakamo and a dozen other Separatists are reported as ‘lost with the Tethered Spire.’ There is no doubt that this statement bears a link with the reports of the fifth Anchor in the Isles having been ‘closed from within’ but I cannot yet discern the meaning.

Reports suggest that, during the assault on Coldharbour, ten Separatists entered to help end the Planemeld. These included Milvera and Sunder-Scales.

Vakamo is listed as ‘lost’ for the months leading up to the assault; where after the end of the Planemeld, he is listed as ‘rescued’. Could Vakamo have been trapped in Coldharbour following the attack on the Isles? Does this suggest that the Dark Anchor was closed from within Molag Bal’s realm itself? This would be a reasonable explanation were it not for the implication that the Tethered Spire was also ‘lost’ in Coldharbour. Could the spire have also been pulled into Coldharbour?

I remain curious as to why every source of information ends around Sun’s Dawn of 2E 583 - the census provides no indication that the Separatists were diminishing in numbers immediately prior to this time.

The lack of bodies might suggest that the Separatists simply disbanded and left their refuge behind, though I hear discussions amongst the miners that this ruin appears to have been buried deliberately. I struggle to understand why burying the ruin would be advantageous if this was the case.

For now, there are too many possibilities to consider. I only hope that the journal can reveal the truth.”

(Visit telvanni-separatists.gamerlaunch.com for news, character bios and more.)
