---
title: "Telvanni Separatists - 5. Restoration"
reddit: 3e1q9d
author: Hazash_
date: 2015-07-21T07:45:35Z
---

Entry Five - 8th of Second Seed, 4E 210

“Finally the journal has been restored, yet my greatest questions are left unanswered.

20th of Sun’s Dawn, 583: the last entry in the journal. Every source ends around this point. This is no coincidence, for that there is no doubt.

What new information the journal presents sheds great light on each of Milvera’s personal encounters with Dark Anchors.

Milvera mentions several times in the journal that it was unknown whether the Telvanni Isles were still under Daedric control following the Separatists’ exodus. This might suggest that it was Daedric attack that led the Separatists to form and leave their home. Perhaps the Dark Anchors were opened at this time, allowing the Daedra to invade from within.

It appears that a Dunmer known as ‘Vircano’ was almost solely responsible for the attack on the Telvanni Isles. At least this disproves the theory that the Telvanni were all Molag Bal worshippers; though I suspect that this Vircano was once a legitimate member of House Telvanni, given that Milvera refers to him as ‘traitorous.’

Vircano is claimed to have appeared before Milvera and the Separatists after dismantling a Dark Anchor in Dagon Fel. Vircano reveals that the Isles remain under Daedric control and are now a bastion of Molag Bal. Milvera also claims that Vircano had become a vampire - perhaps the lure of the Daedric Prince’s power is what ultimately corrupted him. This event is documented as occurring on the 6th of Last Seed in 2E 581.

One month later – consistent with the claims of the records in the tombs – the Telvanni Isles were assaulted by the Separatists. All of the information I have gathered supports that which is stated in the takedown records, but I am bewildered by the validity of my suspicions regarding the fifth Dark Anchor.

The journal reports attacks from a multitude of Daedra, but also from ‘oddly docile’ bloodfiends. Milvera identifies these feral vampires as the original Telvanni mages and Argonian slaves occupying the Isles. Vircano’s projected voice was apparently enough to make the bloodfiends serve him: a feat she assumes is the result of a bargain with Molag Bal himself.

Milvera also claims to have been forced to silence the raised corpse of her father, who she assumes was originally killed by Vircano. This probably occurred before the exodus, and I suspect Milvera’s father may have been a great wizard lord of House Telvanni.

Before assaulting the Tethered Spire to destroy the final Dark Anchor, Vakamo had returned to Milvera to reveal that Vircano is attempting to perform the same ritual he performed to create his bloodfiends. If successful, Vircano could enthral every Separatist in Port Telvannis, essentially quelling the attack. Vakamo and a dozen of his personal mages assaulted the Spire to destroy the Dark Anchor, the ritual and Vircano. The rest of the Separatists then retreated from the city. The ritual was stopped, but Milvera was unsure as to how.

Much to her surprise, the entirety of the Tethered Spire was pulled through the Dark Anchor into Coldharbour, leaving only the Chimer ruins buried beneath it. The Dark Anchor closed shortly after. We can gather from this information that the Anchor was indeed closed from within Coldharbour, though the means through which this is achieved are not mentioned.

I shall continue analysing the remainder of the journal tomorrow. I expect that reports on the assault of Coldharbour to follow will take a great deal of time to study."

(Visit telvanni-separatists.gamerlaunch.com for news, character bios and more.)
