---
title: "Ulfric, Behind the Mask: The Hidden Agenda"
reddit: 3eforx
author: CreamWafers
date: 2015-07-24T11:48:13Z
---

[Preface and Index/Link hub to all of the chapters](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3dx4pn/ulfric_behind_the_mask_warning/)

-------------------------

THE HIDDEN AGENDA

What does Ulfric want anyway? How does his visionary Nordic Utopia look and how will he make that a reality? This is a question that, in the years prior to the Stormcloak Rebellion, needed to be pushed aside. Skyrim was weak, cold and hungry – Eastmarch no exception. Ulfric’s primary goal was to bring Eastmarch back to her feet, with the more idealistic motives laid on the table for the time being. But first I’ll talk about Ulfric’s grandiose long-term plans which – believe me – have always been there, lurking behind whatever violent outbursts are happening at the moment.

Let’s talk about faith. As I pointed out in another chapter, I’ve discussed this topic enough with him to know that Ulfric does not worship Talos. Nor does he want his people to worship Talos. Or the other Eight, for that matter. What he wants is a retreat to the early First Era, arguably the peak of Nord civilization, when Man worshipped the spirits of the land (hawk, wolf, snake, moth, owl, whale, bear, fox, dragon) before the Nord pantheon became a mere model of the Imperial Eight (this endeavor is, arguably, impossible with Skyrim under Imperial rule). Ulfric believes that the abandonment of the Old Ways represented a surrender to Cyrod faith and a ‘sullying’ of Nord culture. He told me that as long as we worship the Nine Divines, we will continue to be conquered rather than conquer.

Ulfric also plans for future Nord children to learn Dovahzuul, the dragon tongue. His most loyal subjects he wants to be trained in the Voice as he is, so that the art may never die. I guess he doesn’t trust the Greybeards to adequately spread the tradition – in fact, he has expressed resentment towards Jurgen Windcaller’s ‘Way of the Voice,’ saying it promotes superstition and hinders the Nords with a chronic fear of power. Maybe Ulfric simply wishes to freely give the gift of ancient wisdom; maybe he’s trying to form a Dragon Cult where Ulfric is the only dragon.

I’m joking in the latter, but that brings me to the final aspect of Ulfric’s ideal Nord religion. It involves a figure that he has already succeeded in rallying Nords to worship: himself. The Man-Cult, the ‘Su’um’ in fancy dragon language (learned that from a book, not Ulfric) is a powerful thing, folks. Think about the legacy of Tiber Septim the man, the mortal tyrant before he ascended to godhood and merged into Talos. Ulfric’s old hatred of Tiber Septim was strong, but shallow – an attempt to drown out his obvious fascination with the guy. The idea that a mortal’s personality alone could hold such power over the masses was something Ulfric never forgot. And he’s well on his way there himself. At least, the people of Windhelm seem to have more faith in Ulfric than they have in the Nine.

Religion stuff shock you? It’s time to move on to more concrete ambitions. Ulfric intends to pursue absolute authority in Skyrim, leagues beyond that of a regular High King (an endeavor that is, of course, impossible under imperial rule). Skyrim is a very regional province, as you probably know, where the Jarls have close to full control over their respective holds. This won’t do for Ulfric. Ulfric’s future method for achieving the power of decree is all my prediction and it has a lot to do with the outcomes of a hypothetical Stormcloak victory in our Civil War (the outbreak and current state of the war is for another chapter). Therefore it has a lot to do with making Skyrim into a strong military power.

Let me tell you a story. I, a veteran, worked at an inn on the outskirts of Windhelm at the start of Ulfric’s rule. Times were difficult for everyone. I had fallen out of touch with politics; I no longer cared. As far as I was concerned, there was no future to look forward to beyond the next morning meal.

So, as far as I was concerned, Ulfric did pretty well in those first years on the Jarl’s throne. Beggars rose from the streets and found employment. I was able to leave my job for a better one at the smithy, where I was secure and no longer facing the prospect of starvation and homelessness. The argonians had work and asylum at the docks; the dark elves even received their own slice of the city (folks were not so happy about this, and Ulfric himself was more than reluctant, but it says something that they could make do). I didn’t understand any of it from a logical perspective – I didn’t know how significant of a role Ulfric himself played, or how much of our recovery represented the natural end to monetary suffering – but things were alright. This is not only how I felt. This was the mood of all the common folk. When we were thankful for our very lives, there was time for neither skepticism nor criticism.

Now that this is in the past, I know that recovery from the war was not the only objective of Ulfric’s early actions. Or, one might say, it was ‘rebound’ rather than ‘recovery.’ You know how the unemployed suddenly found jobs? Ulfric’s efforts to prepare for the Civil War (though he kept this exact aim secret) opened up a ton of work for blacksmiths, fletchers and miners throughout Eastmarch. Ulfric also drastically increased the number of guards in the hold: founding both the ‘Open Guard,’ trained civilians with only part-time guard duty that could coexist with a regular job, and the ‘Stormcloak Guard,’ ex-soldiers who would keep order and deal with bandits or necromancers or anything causing trouble in Eastmarch. The rise in membership in the Open Guard in the next years would be absurd (I joined myself, but that’s over now). Certain members of the Stormcloak Guard would be Ulfric’s most trusted subordinates. All of these ‘guards’ would become the first Stormcloak Army.

That’s a way in which he’s already created the necessary backup for complete control of Skyrim: 1) to win the Civil War, and 2) something a bit nastier. Should the Stormcloaks win the Civil War and successfully establish an independent kingdom, the Jarls will look a bit like this: Empire-supporting Jarls exiled with Ulfric’s choices in their place; Stormcloak-supporting Jarls left unchanged. The problem is in the latter. Do you think that just because a Jarl supported Ulfric, Ulfric will support them? No doubt some of the Jarls and thanes that Ulfric figures to be ‘suspicious’ (as far as absolute loyalty is concerned) will be kicked out – or even killed. I imagine that the justification will always be ‘___ was a(n) Imperial/Thalmor spy,’ which scares people enough for them to just drop the whole matter. My point is that Ulfric is already equipped to do this. Who needs the Dark Brotherhood when you have the Stormcloak Guard?

The Stormcloaks would not be limited to removing Jarls and thanes. Any potential opponent, civilian or otherwise, could be dealt with. All Ulfric needs is for Skyrim to break from the Empire. Only then will he be free to do what he wants without a higher rule stopping him. And with plans like Ulfric's, dictatorial rights are something he will simply need.

With each Jarl as a Stormcloak puppet and Ulfric as the supreme ruler, what will happen then? Ulfric will expand his horizons. I think Nordic Colovia will go first. Without the territorial clauses of the White-Gold Concordat in effect, Skyrim will have no obligations to maintain her southern border. I imagine Ulfric will capture Bruma as well. It’s a change that the Colovian Nords certainly won’t mind (as I indicated in previous chapters).

Who knows if the Empire or Dominion will intervene by then? I don’t. We’re talking Ulfric’s plans here; the outbreak of another war, though strongly implied by now, is for another chapter.

If the annexation of Nordic Colovia goes well, Ulfric will go further into West Colovia and capture the port city of Anvil. Sound like a stupid idea? Keep in mind, Skyrim will be strong by then if everything goes as planned, and Cyrodiil will remain both wounded and demoralised by the (First) Great War. The Empire’s will to stay out of another war may outweigh the threat of Ulfric.

Anyways, what’s next? My guess would be Solstheim. First because Ulfric is obsessed with the Skaal, and second because he doesn’t see post-Red Year Morrowind in any state to intervene (speaking of Morrowind, Ulfric will probably drive out the dark elves before any of this happens – another job for the Stormcloaks). This will all, ideally, culminate in a new Tamrielic Empire run by Nords.

But I’ll repeat that none of Ulfric’s ambitions can take flight until the Civil War is won and the Empire is gone from Skyrim. Everything depends on the outcome of the current Civil War. Are my claims outlandish? Heavens, yes. But these things could definitely happen in the years to come, and more importantly, you (yes you) are prepared to let them all happen. Again – it all depends on the Civil War, which I will address in the next chapter!

