---
title: "Telvanni Separatists - 8A. Departure"
reddit: 3f0w2y
author: Hazash_
date: 2015-07-29T13:08:55Z
---

Entry Eight - 12th of Second Seed, 4E 210

“After many nights in the Retching Netch, I leave Raven Rock aboard the Redoran’s Pride which will stop at several ports in Vvardenfell before taking me directly to the Telvanni Isles. Though Councillor Morvayn was generous in paying part of the fee to get me there, I fear that returning empty-handed may become financially problematic.

*

After the eruption of Red Mountain and the Argonian invasion, House Telvanni was almost completely wiped out. Without the numbers to support colonies in both of their capital cities, they reluctantly agreed to the other Houses’ colonisation of the Telvanni Isles in exchange for gold and resources. Though the Telvanni still control some parts of the Isles, the main seat of power lies with House Redoran in Port Telvannis. I am glad of this development as without it, I would be forbidden from even setting foot in the Isles.

*

After leaving Solstheim behind, I am surprised to discover that Talvas is also on board. He apologises for Neloth’s behaviour, claiming that the attack on Tel Mithryn likely had a part to play. I disagree.

Talvas explains that he is to travel to Vvardenfell and assist in the extraction of a heart stone from the bowels of Red Mountain. He is unsure as to why Neloth would need such a thing, though I suspect his experiments with heart stones demand specimens more attuned to the powers of the Heart of Lorkhan.

I ask Talvas if he knows anything of the Separatists. He does not, nor does he know much about the past of House Telvanni. I sense truth in his words, and I can imagine that Neloth would not share such secrets with even his apprentice.

*

As we approach the coast of Vvardenfell, fractures in the black earth reveal deep canals of lava bellowing steam in all directions. Obsidian crags substitute former cities and settlements, and choking ash from centuries past still spares no surface to settle on.

Red Mountain stands tall: a looming giant behind a veil of ash. I hear in the distance the rumblings of the mountain like a perpetual fire raging. The constant hum of the mountain I am accustomed to in the mainland is now something much more.

The great volcano remains the source of our greatest hardships, yet holds fast as the personification of Morrowind and the might of the Dunmer people. Journeying into the volcano would be no small feat: some say Boethiah Herself sees promise in those who return from its depths unscathed. I can only imagine what strings Neloth must have pulled to have another venture forth into that ashen abyss in his place.”

(Visit telvanni-separatists.gamerlaunch.com for news, character bios and more.)
