---
title: "The Last Silvenar III (Finale)"
reddit: 3f56k1
author: Xhylorekihel
date: 2015-07-30T10:02:36Z
---

Previous Posts: [1]( https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3e7hpc/the_last_silvenar_i/); [2]( https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3ezt7z/the_last_silvenar_ii/)

*Gwaering was crawling towards the body, hearing the sounds of the Wild Hunt behind her. She felt the forest crumble to Y’ffre’s will as she got closer to the body. When she came upon it, she realized that it was Indaenir, the Silvenar, lying in his robes. Gwaering collapsed. She knew now that there was no way for her to survive. So, as the Wild Hunt approached her, she touched Indaenir’s face and prayed to Y’ffre for one final moment with the love of her life. Suddenly, she felt memories flood into her mind as Indaenir’s eyes started flashing with a bright glow. Gwaering realized that Y’ffre had hear her pleas and was soul-melding the two lovers together so that they could be with each other forever. Gwaering saw images of Indaenir’s childhood, his mid-years as a priest of the Wooded Eye, his years as the Silvenar, and finally, the last moments of his life. Gwaering saw him protecting the citizens as he battled the Wild Hunt, but it at last engulfed him. He however managed to retain his form until death. As these memories flooded into her mind, with the corner of her eye, Gwaering saw the Wild Hunt. She started getting up, but something was preventing her. Suddenly a voice spoke from her head, as if she was thinking, but it was not her thoughts. It was Indaenir. “Our time in this world is over, love. There is no escape, rest now.”  Gwaering sat on the ground, facing the Wild Hunt, and feeling no pain, was consumed by it, as was the city of Silvenar.*

**Unknown location, Valenwood**

Gwaering woke up to the sound of screams. She was lying underneath a tree, covered in a blanket. She stood up, and looked towards the source of the screams. She was near a village, and she saw that there were people everywhere on the streets; however, none of them were Bosmer. She started walking, and as she did, she realized something. 
“No…” – she whispered.

She started running towards the village, and one of the Bretons noticed her.

“It’s a Bosmer, run for your lives!!!” – He screamed, and darted into the forest.

As the villagers looked over at her, they too, one by one, began screaming,

“She’s going to eat us all!” – A Nord shouted.

“Wait, I’m not going to eat you, I don’t even know what’s going on!” – Gwaering shouted back distressfully.

“You’re not?” – The Nord inquired, cautiously.

“No” – Gwaering said, - “I’m the Green Lady! And why would I want to eat you?”

Some of the people bowed, but Gwaering noticed that most of them were still very cautious.

“The other Bosmer, they decided to do the, what is it, Wild Hunt, because of the Numidium.” – The Nord answered back.

“No, NO, WHY WOULD INDAENIR DO THIS!!!” – Gwaering shouted

Some of the villagers stepped back, and Gwaering realized.

“I’m sorry, I won’t bother you again, just tell me where Silvenar is, please.”

One of the Bretons walked up to Gwaering.

“Green Lady, Silvenar is where the ritual started, I would strongly advise you to not going there.”

“I know, you mean well, but I must.”

The Breton pointed to the north-east.

“It’s very far away, but I doubt you’ll have problems with it. We are one of the only remaining villages in the area, if not Valenwood, because Silvenar is so far away.”

“Thank you! I wish you luck on your journey” – Gwaering bowed, and started running through the forest.

