---
title: "On Orcish Dining"
reddit: 3g05rk
author: gro-Muluk
date: 2015-08-06T13:52:02Z
---

*From the desk of ~~esteemed~~ Orc ~~scholar~~ alchemist, Balus gro-Something*
***
A thick, unnamed wheat is a staple in Orcish homes, and has been cultivated for generations to be made into various flours, pastes and mixtures. Due to its coarse and grainy texture, it is primarily eaten whole after soaking in water or alcohol, made into thin rounds that can be used in place of bread or casings. Goat and *echiterre* are the primary meats eaten in the home, the latter being considered peasant food and found most often with patties made of the coarse Orcish wheat. Eaten with meat are typically tubers and root vegetables; potatoes, leeks, carrots and turnips are wildly popular in the home and are typically never mixed with meat in one dish. While they can be eaten together, it’s more typical to have a vegetarian side dish comprised of roasted vegetables alongside the main dish of sauttéed goat or echiterre. Another popular side is a thick, bitter yogurt made from the milk of the echiterre. Goat cheese is found cooked into meals, while echiterre yogurt is typically used as a topping or sauce. Secondary to the yogurt, a thick paste made of ground battaglir weed called *makaza* is often mixed with vegetables to give them a nutty, savory flavor. Other popular flavorings include onions, garlic, bergamot, and a relative of lemongrass native to the Wrothgarian region. Dessert is often made of a yogurt and a hearty fruit, such as Wrothgarian figs or oranges. Honey is also a popular sweetener, and syrups are derived from it, and various tree saps.

Meals are eaten as a family, often with guests, in small ceremonies called *darbur*(s). Tables are round, and all food is shared across the table on communal plates that each guest takes from with their hands. Food is a central part of Orcish culture, taking center stage at weddings, parties and even funerals. Alcohol of course is also served at all of these festivities, namely Orcish brandy, ale and occasionally an imported mead. At more high-class events, and in the royal home, a thin watery drink derived from seed pods of the local wheat, called *karaka*, is drunk in small cups, similar to shot glasses.

