---
title: "[Apocrypha] A summary of Penitus Oculatus directive 132 regarding the Dark Brotherhood."
reddit: 3h2v46
author: Nakige
date: 2015-08-15T08:39:03Z
---

Eyes on the Inside operation request contained within. Eye From Skeever desires cooperation of Hammer Under Eagle, requesting forthcoming information immediately be dispersed among Elder Council and Red Legion members still loyal to T__S. Pertains to potential asset against Golden Eagle. Make sure all relevant parties are fully briefed regarding current intelligence on the recent termination of Red Crown near Solitude.

**- Eye From Skeever**

***

Communication confirmed, Penitus Oculatus agent Razelan willing and able to carry out operation. I keep telling you every time you send a letter Noster, drop the damn codenames. We’ve confirmed one hundred times over that the Dominion doesn’t bother intercepting letters now that they’ve dealt with the Blades, all their resources are entirely committed to cracking our dreamsleeve transmissions. Just to confirm, this information is safe for eyes outside of the Council?

**- Razelan**

***

Communication outside of Elder Council confirmed, but only for highest level Red Legion members. Remember topic is potential asset against Golden Eagle, leaking of intelligence highly undesirable, maintain highest secrecy. Eye From Skeever is highly disappointed in Hammer Under Eagle for their lack of caution, the Blades did not believe their letters were being intercepted and their lack of caution lead to their well documented demise. Intelligence proper contained within, distribute according to instructions.

*Intelligence proper contains letters recovered from our recently killed Dark Brotherhood informant, Astrid. They appear to be generic letters distributed to senior figures across the remnants of the Dark Brotherhood.*

**- Eye From Skeever**

***

Guardians of our once great Brotherhood, protectors of your ever smaller flocks, I bring grave news. For the longest of ages, we have been deceived. Our brotherhood preached of Sithis and the Night Mother, but never served them. Indeed our true purpose is to be faithful servants of Sithis! But so few of our brothers and sisters understand our Dread Father, and so cannot comprehend our true purpose.

**What is Sithis?**

In the past Sithis has been called the Void, but this is merely a lie built on indoctrination at the hands of the priests of Anuiel. Before Sithis was the infinite nothingness of Anuiel. Those fools among you most educated in the Dawn may call me a liar, reciting the oldest Myths. You would not be entirely mistaken in the assumptions leading to your confusion, but nonetheless you are grossly misled by the servants of Anuiel.

Anuiel is indeed all the Elves claim him to be: IS, Stasis, Order, Everything. But be not fooled, what is Stasis if not nothing? Anuiel was a single idea, IS, Being, Everything. But do you not see the secret the Elves want to keep hidden away? Anuiel is every idea at once, even his own invert. Anuiel cannot be 1 because he is also -1, Anuiel cannot be 10 because he is also -10. Anuiel is therefore only 0. What is Sithis then? Sithis is anti-possibility, the holy force that limits Anuiel. If Anuiel is clay, Sithis is the artist who molds it. Sithis can only reject, but rejection is exactly what was needed. Sithis can make Anuiel be 1 but not -1, and therefore the Aurbis is no longer 0. Sithis rejects all that the Aurbis IS NOT and leaves Anuiel with only what IS. What is Sithis if not our creator?

**Who is the Night Mother?**

The Secret Spirit, Sithis’ secret plan to escape The Dreamer in the Sun. The Night Mother is the secret bride of Sithis, an object that allowed Sithis to birth spirits far away from the schemes of Anuiel’s child, Auriel. The Night Mother was Sithis’ hidden will to create, from their union came all the spirits who knew of Anuiel’s lies: Mephala, Herma-Mora, Molag Bal, Dagon. These four Spirits are the children of Sithis and bring new freedom.

Why then do we murder for the Night Mother? We murder because mortality is a creation of the Night Mother, her children shared the secrets of mortality with the Missing One, and therein is the secret to defeat this Dream, we must bring death. Sithis knew the Night Mother in his desire for Mundus. Why? Because the immortal Spirits of the Original Place could only bring stasis, they could never reach the true secrets. Anuiel covered their eyes. Mortality is the cure, it is freedom from Anuiel and we must kill and spread true freedom.

**What is the purpose of our Brotherhood?**

We are agents of mortality; we bring death where life has continued too long. I call now for our greatest Contract, we must defeat the agents of stasis, those who would harm Sithis’ ultimate construction, the realm of the Missing One.

***

By secret glyph: dreamsleeve transmission 

Dreamsleeve: highest secrecy

For eyes of Penitus Oculatus commanders only.

Chairman of the Elder Council Committee for Ayleid Affairs, Chairman Councillor [REDACTED] authorizes the following new orders under directive 132 for all Imperials operations involving the Dark Brotherhood or the Psijic Order.

1. Cease all hostilities with Dark Brotherhood chapters in or near Aldmeri Dominion territories
2. Attempt to leak to Dark Brotherhood chapters any intelligence articles relating to directive 107 (the true plans of the Thalmor) and directive 131 (Dark Brotherhood propaganda)
3. Attempt to foster friendly communication with the Psijic Order for possible cooperation with directive 132

Dark Brotherhood asset now valued highly as a potential threat to Thalmor. Interference with Dark Brotherhood operations targeting the Aldmeri Dominion now punishable with death.

Signed under the authority of the Chancellor of the Elder Council, Chairman Councillor [REDACTED].
