---
title: "Spell Tome: Frostbite"
reddit: 3h66ag
author: tstorie3231
date: 2015-08-16T04:45:15Z
---

Quintus Cassianus, Master Destruction Instructor, Imperial City Mages' Guild

Welcome to the school of Destruction, pupil. Whether you've purchased this tome to learn on your own or to supplement a class, you've made the right choice. In this series of lessons, you will learn how to cast spells to deal direct damage to your foes.  This book will be focused on the third of the beginner Destruction spells, frostbite.  Like flames and sparks, frostbite is simple to cast, deals minimal damage, and comes in the form of a continual blast, making it excellent for beginners and any mages who find themselves in close quarters.  

One last time: if you've no idea at all how to cast a spell, or need a refresher, this section is for you. Otherwise, seek out the next paragraph. Spellcasting may look as easy as the swing of a sword, but in reality it takes years of dedication, training and tutelage to grow into a mage who is capable of casting without extending immense effort. There is much more to it then simply curling your fingers and pointing your palm at your target. Casting a spell takes skill, knowledge, and intent. If you don't know what you want to do, you simply can't do it. To cast a spell is to change the Mundus. You are creating something out of nothing. Your body is the vessel through which the magicka flows.

By now you should know that intention is very important, and your intention with frostbite is to send a blast of cold at your enemy.  More specifically, you are cooling the air around your hand and pushing it forward.  Frostbite can be visualized as a gust of freezing air pushed out away from the palm, with care taken not to freeze your own fingers.  

Frostbite will go as far as you can push it, though it will usually become heated by the air after a fairly short distance.  

Frostbite differs from the other basic Destruction spells in that in addition to damaging the body, it also tends to tire out the target, seemingly draining their stamina, much like how shock spells seem to drain magicka.  Frost spells also tend to slow the target, which can be very useful against all types of opponents, but especially charging warriors, and archers who need finger dexterity.  

Finally, remember to train your casting under duress.  I stress this because I notice some of my colleagues from the other schools teach how to cast a spell, but not how to use it in a practical situation.  This is as important as learning how to cast it in the first place.  

Be sure to purchase my other books on the subject of beginner Destruction spells, [Sparks](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3h5bpl/spell_tome_sparks/), and [Flames](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3h4z69/spell_tome_flames/), if you haven't already done so.
