---
title: "Healing is not just healing."
reddit: 3h73uh
author: LordElantri
date: 2015-08-16T13:10:29Z
---

Healing is not just healing.
Author: Archon Elantri.

When the uneducated masses think of the word healing they think it is just throw a spell on the wound and everything will be okay. This is wrong. The use of Restoration is often applied to one of two cases, Wounds or Diseases.

Because of this, one can divide healing into two categories. Controlled and uncontrolled.

Uncontrolled: 
A uncontrolled healing spell, is what one uses if the wound or disease is minor. One can also use it on major wounds to buy oneself more time to do a Controlled healing spell.
When one use a uncontrolled healing spell, what one realy do, is flood the body with restorative energy. Because the body is now filled with restorative energy, the body will heal itself like it would on it's own. The process is just accelerated into a couple of seconds. This is fine for minor wounds or diseases. IF one use a uncontrolled healing spell on anything major one runs the risk of wounds healing wrong. Bones may heal crocked, the skin may gain scars or other deformities. 
The only reason to use a uncontrolled Healing spell on anything major, is when one dont have time to do a controlled one. 

Controlled:

A controlled healing spell, is what one uses on major wounds or diseases. In contrast to a uncontrolled healing spell,  a controlled one takes time. Instead of flooding the body of the wounded with restorative energy and letting the body heal itself. The healer takes a more active role in the process, guiding the restorative energy. When one use the controlled healing, one not only guides the energy to the wounds, but also telling it how and in what order the wound or disease should heal. Because of this, it is necessary for a healer to study not only healing spells and when to use the different spells, but also how bodies and diseases works. As knowlege over the body and different diseases is necessary for a Controlled healing, the more a healer know about the body the better the healing will be.
If one have used a uncontrolled healing spell on a major wound, like a gut wound it is strongly recomended to use a controlled healing spell as soon as possible. Doing a controlled Healing after an uncontrolled one will reveal if the wound is healed properly and without side effects. If the wound is not healed properly, one have to upen it up again and use a controlled healing to fix  the wound. 
Using Uncontrolled on major wounds for so later fixing the wounds with Controlled, is strategy often seen applied by Battlemages. During a battle, a battlemage will use Uncontrolled healing to keep himself and his allies alive no matter how fatal the wound is. Then later after the battle,  the battlemage will use Controlled healing to fix how it healed.

To summarize:

Uncontrolled is fast, keeps you alive but is rather sloppy

Controlled: slower but with better results.
