---
title: "Cultures of Morrowind: The Great Houses (Part 1- Architecture)"
reddit: 3hg0k0
author: nmd453
date: 2015-08-18T13:33:26Z
---

*By Miles Sextius*

The Dunmer of Morrowind are commonly known as the "Dark Elves" and for good reason. The dark, ashen skies, the dark ebony armors and black painted steel, and the dark moods of the people demonstrate this perfectly. But despite this, the Dunmer have a rich culture with a certain primitive elegance. It is my aim to show you the wonders of the diverse Dunmeri cultures found in Morrowind's Great Houses.

The most striking and well-known area of Dunmer society is its architecture. From Necrom to Port Telvannis to the ruined Vivec city, the Dark Elves have built a reputation for grand architecture.

Traditional styles demonstrate the dark elegance that the Dunmer are famous for. Curved spikes adorn the outer walls of many Redoran and Dres settlements, based on the shapes of local shelled creatures. Often, their chitin is used to make these walls, held together by hardened ash-clay. Where chitin cannot be found, stone is carved to replicate this style. Patterned and engraved tiles cover the walls, only adding to the wonder.

House Indoril's famous city of Necrom is a harrowing place. A pale, dead white blankets the city. Imposing towers stand atop the city walls. The graveyard is not part of the city proper, but it the presence of death is hard to ignore. Of all the cities in Morrowind, this was the most frightening one I have visited.

The young house Sadras, since replacing Hlaalu, has kept to the influences of its predecessor. Imperial influenced wood-framed structures stand tall in their towns, packed densely together in a bustling urban environment. These buildings are made with purpose in mind, and lack much of the grandiosity of the other houses.

Of course, the most exciting parts of Dunmer architecture, and maybe what Morrowind is most famous for, are the enormous mushroom-towers of House Telvanni. Grown from spores using secret magics, a wizard's tower dominates the skyline in most of the Great House's cities. The inner walls are decorated with carvings on the veins of the tower, with flowing patterns ushering you up the tower to whatever crazed mage lives at the summit. These are truly a spectacle and one of the Dunmer's greatest wonders.



