---
title: "Speluncus Tamrielicum: Chapter 1"
reddit: 3iy6g3
author: Xhylorekihel
date: 2015-08-30T12:19:53Z
---

Speluncus Tamrielicum:

Chapter 1 – Caves and Caverns

Many citizens of Tamriel think that the caves under them were formed by a race known as the Slugworms, who dug themselves throughout Tamriel and thus, cave networks were formed. When asked why there have been no sightings of these “Slugworms”, the common reply seems to be that they died out eras ago. What you will find is even harder to believe however, is that all of this is false.

Caves, in fact, were created in the first days of the dawn era when Mundus was still young and was flowing with Aurbical energies. Imagine that, like a living body, the world was veined with a huge system of nodes and capillaries, that pulsed with these energies, as well as the energies of the Aedra who created it.

There is, however, a less popular theory, which is specific to certain races. This theory states that before tearing out Lorkah’s heart, there was a battle between him and Auri-El. The caves were the paths that Auri-El’s arrows formed during the battle. Even though this theory is less popular than the first one, it is still widely accepted in Summerset.

Last, but not least, is a very unpopular theory, which nevertheless is still relevant. Some say that the caves were dug out by the Old Ehlnofey and their enemies, the Wanderers, during what is known as the Old War (sometimes First War) for safe travel throughout Nirn to their strongholds.

