---
title: "[C0DA] Conference With the Ancient Atmeri Tribe-Clans: Part III"
reddit: 3l1p9m
author: Xhylorekihel
date: 2015-09-15T14:39:20Z
---

###TEM Designate Solaris Aurbical Starfleet Command 
 
###Nu_Aldmeris House of Akagrog 
 
###6E700, ALDMER [IS] Ward-Soul Frequency 55 

The House thanks you for your cooperation and the kindness of transporting the Atmer to Masser. For your assistance, there has been provided below your payment. This whole affair is to be kept secret until the House decides what to do with the Atmer. None of the Council has had any idea of what to do with them, and there is much discomfort among us. If we need any further assistance, we will send you a letter from an undisclosed location.




###TEM Designate Ald Sotha, House of The Wedding
 
###Nu_Aldmeris House of Akagrog 
 
###6E701, ALDMER [IS] Ward-Soul Frequency [erased]

The Three would be pleased to know that the Atmer are accounted for and their leaders have proven to be very cooperative. Some of them request to locate them in their own city; however the House is still undecided on this. With this we have turned to the Akagrog, and hope that this letter will reach them. We hope to receive a response as The House is still having issues and there are disputed between the different members of the council. However for the convenience of the Akagrog, The House has attached the documentation of the conference that some of the Council had with the new “Atmeri Tribe-Clan” leaders.

[The documentation will be told in the next chapter]

