---
title: "The Three Enantiomorphs of Red Mountain"
reddit: 3m0xeb
author: BlackgrassSilverasp
date: 2015-09-23T03:56:22Z
---

Note: I feel like this has been thought of before, so let me know if I'm just getting on the bandwagon.

Thinking back on the triune nature of the enantiomorph, I realize that there are some inherent problems with the ascension of the tribunal. An enantiomorph inherently requires three participants, two of which must battle, one of which must die, and one of which must observe. Thus, it's divided into the pattern of King-Rebel-Observer. However, when you introduce all the characters present at the battle, you realize that there are many more characters than required. Particularly, Nerevar and Voryn Dagoth break the apparent tirune ritual, as Nerevar takes the place of the man dying, and Dagoth could be seen as either the observer or rebel. However, if Nerevar is the one dying, then Ayem loses her place as the king in the Tribunal enantiomorph. Similarly, if Voryn becomes the observer, then Seht loses his place, just as Vehk loses his place if Voryn becomes the rebel. Thus, the whole things seems to break apart. 

However, as you closer into it, the event becomes much more complex, and much more open to a situation which could work. This is due to the inclusion of four more characters into the situation: Wulfharth and Lorkhan, and Alandro Sul and Dumac. This is sated in both the *Arcturian Heresy* and *The Secret Song of Wulfharth Ash-King*.

With the inclusion of these characters, we now have nine characters. That acts as enough to fill three entire enantiomorphs, which leads us to the beginning of a fascinating arrangement. Each of theses three groupings (Nerevar-Sul-Dumac, Shor-Wulfharth-Dagoth, and ALMSIVI), are all comprised of the character arrangements needed to fulfill an enantiomorph. ALMSIVI is already well covered in this respect: Vivec is the rebel, who kills Nerevar in one timeline, Almelexia is the King and Sotha Sil is the observer, who receives the blunt of Azura's curse. The other Enantimorphs follow a similar pattern.

In the Shor-Wulfharth-Dagoth enantiomorph, Shor is the king. He leads the group, having summoned Wulfharth back to life and having gathered the armies of Nords to claim the heart that is rightfully his, which is ultimatley ripped from him again by Nerevar. Dagoth-Ur is the rebel, who "had tricked the Nords, for the Heart of Shor was not in the eastern kingdoms, and had never been there at all (*Secret song*)," and who coveted the Heart of Lorkhan for himself. Finally, Wulfharth is the oberver, forced to watch as his god is killed, and is maimed in being turned to ash by Vivec.

In the Nerevar-Sul-Dumac enantiomorph, Nerevar is the king. He leads the elves into battle, defends the home that is his, and is ultimately betrayed by either Dagoth or Vivec. Dumac is the rebel, in that he is of the treacherous Dwemer, and comes to blows with Nerevar int he battle. Alandro Sul, then, is the rebel, as he witnesses his lord's betrayal, and is maimed in having his honor taken from him, forced to wander the ashlands, his story believed only by the outcast.

Thus, we have three enantiomorphs, all at the same event. This would solve the problem of the single enantiomorph, and explain the role of each character in the battle. However, there is a final twist that becomes apparent when one looks at the enantiomorphs themselves. 

This twist is that all three enantiomorphs act as characters in their own way, linking together to form a fourth, all-encompassing enantiomorph which ultimately instigates the true power of the Dragon Break know as the Red Moment. In this Great Enantiomorph, Shor-Wulfharth-Dagoth acts as the king, coming to claim what is rightfully theirs: the heart. Despite being in the "right," they still fall to teh fate of the king, ultimately being deeated. Nerevar-Shul-Dumac is the Rebel, for while they defend their homeland, they also covet the heart for themselves, despite it not being theirs to claim. While they all perish in some way, they reap the full benefit of the enantiomorph, as Nerevar returns thousands of years later to enact Azura's revenge upon ALMSIVI. Finally, ALMSIVI itself acts as the observer. In this timeline, they are not ultimately responsible for killing Nerevar: they are only there to watch, and to clean up the mess when it is done. They bear the burden of being maimed, as do all who fulfill the role of the observer, in that they are the ones who are cursed by Azura in the end, doomed to lose their powers to the Nerevarine's actions.

With all of this laid out, we can now see the true scale of the enantiomorph at hand. It is a massive one, one which makes itself up of three smaller enantiomorphs, and is large enough to break time itself. This, along withe the actions of ALMSIVI, is the reason why facts surrounding Red mountain are so blurred; Red Mountain itself is the heart of the largest enantiomorph we know of in Elder Scrolls lore, excluding Nirni-Padomay-Anu.
