---
title: "[C0DA] Conference With The Ancient Atmeri Tribe-Clans: Finale"
reddit: 3m7201
author: Xhylorekihel
date: 2015-09-24T13:18:36Z
---

*Over the next two and a half over-cycles nothing seems to happen to the Atmer. They star living prosperously over the 2 Arcs that have been appointed to them on Secunda. The matter of the marking is revealed only to the elite few and all the inquiries that have been removed and the inquirers have either been eliminated or told that the marking were natural physical features. However in the last couple of cycles of their existence, there were reports of the markings on the Atmer were glowing much brighter. Later reports state that there was some kind of humming noise coming “from inside them”. Some of the inhabitant near the Atmer’s province or in it either left the area or were later evacuated when The House figured out what was going on. Later another conference was assembled with the same Atmer and Aldmer present. It is recorded below. This time the Dwemer were put in a separate room, which they surprisingly did not protest.*

&amp;nbsp;

Voladil: Welcome to what is probably our last council. According to some of the data that we have gotten, it would seem that you have about 20 minutes to live in this world, if you could describe anything that you are feeling?

&amp;nbsp;

*Suddenly Karg collapses onto the ground and begins to shake. The markings on his body begin glowing incredibly bright, like those of Kagrenac. Very soon nobody can stare at Karg, and when the light subsides, he is gone.*

&amp;nbsp;

Arquel: It has begun.

&amp;nbsp;

Blavnak: I can’t quite describe the feeling… It’s almost like something is pushing on every inch of my body, and with every second it grows stronger. Whenever I try to recall recent event I find that I can’t.

&amp;nbsp;

Angoldil: We are very sorry. Karg was the First. His removal was painless. For you I cannot say the same.

&amp;nbsp;

Klamac: Then we will spare you the trouble of having to watch us while this happens.

&amp;nbsp;

Voladil: Very well, and may The Three guide you to the Light.

&amp;nbsp;

*The Altmer exit the room. As time passes, there is some strain showing on the faces of the Dwemer. However the transitions are not smooth ones. After a couple of minutes, the Dwemer suddenly grasp their heads. After another couple of minutes they start screaming and they fall to the floor. While rolling around, their markings are beginning to glow brighter and brighter. Eventually, like before, the marking become too bright to bear and everyone looks away. When they look back, not only the Leaders, but every single Atmer was gone, faded in the streams of Time.*
