---
title: "Translating Calcelmo's Stone"
reddit: 3ni0s7
author: YouMaySayImADwemer
date: 2015-10-04T21:57:49Z
---

* [Sentence II + Phonology](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3nn6n7/calcelmos_stone_sentence_ii_dwemeris_phonology/)
* [Sentence III, Minor Revisions, and the Avatheled Kagr](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3nss6v/calcelmos_stone_sentence_iii_minor_revisions_and/)

So I'm a linguist who likes the Elder Scrolls. Naturally, I've started work on reconstructing all the languages we have any material for at all. This includes most elven languages, Ta’agra, Jel, and even Nordic, to some extent. (Though Nordic is actually just Germanic, from what I can tell. *Jarl*, for example, is the North Germanic cognate to English *earl*, and names like *[Asbjorn](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Asbjorn_Fire-Tamer)*, ON [Ásbjǫrn](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%C3%81sbj%C7%ABrn), pop up all over the place. It might have something interesting, but I haven't looked very far into it if I'm being honest.) I just made a reddit account today so I could share all this with you all. I’ve lurked on /r/teslore for a while, but I’ve never actually had an account, so here I am.

I’ve started my endeavor with an analysis of the largest language source in Skyrim: Calcelmo's Stone. I’ve noticed quite a few attempt this before, but they’re usually either really strangely worded, outdated, or just incomplete.

I'm gonna go through the stone sentence-by-sentence to get a translation, comparing Dwemeris with the corresponding Falmeris text (which we can partially translate thanks to Ayleid inscriptions) and other elven languages.

Dwemeris text will be in **bold**, Falmeris in *italics*. The partial Ayleid translation goes under the Falmeris.

**Sentence I**
&gt; **Chun thuamer arkngd chend duathand, th ahvardn btham.**

&gt; *ye sa sou meldi calne tarn va nou molagnenseliye trumbi nou bala*

&gt; *and so your driven* CALNE *portal in our fire-water-halls-and*[1] TRUMBI *our power*

[1] *molag-nen-seli-ye*

We see a discrepancy between conjunctions here. *Ye se* literally means “and so,” but Dwemeris uses a single word **chun** (translated as “thus”) in its place.

**Thua-** and **dua-** are likely possessive prefixes, given its general correspondence with *sou* and *nou*, which are known to be “your” and “our”; the two sets are likely cognates.

I've taken **arkngd** as a past (passive) participle. Similar words appear later in the text: **ahrkanch** and **ahrk**, which are either related to or are forms of the root **a(h)rk-**, which I've translated as “drive” or “exile”. These match with forms of *meld*- which is of the same meaning. (I'm wondering if *ah* is simply a long vowel /aː~ɑː/, while *a* is a short vowel; this could mean that vowels shorten after three or more consonants, causing some differences in pronunciation based on morphology.)

*Calne* seems equivalent to **mer** in this instance. The lack of the *-i* plural suffix means that *calne* is probably a singular noun, meaning something like “crowd,” “group,” or “people” in the sense of race.

*Trumbi* gave me a lot more trouble than I originally thought it would. Given that the Dwemeris and Falmeris parts don't seem to match up, I looked at any Ayleid texts to see if I could find anything. As it turns out, *[Trumbe](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Trumbe)* is a place in Oblivion. I took a shot in the dark and translated it as “fortress” or “castle,” both of which match up nicely with **ahvardn,** which I’ve interpreted as cognate to **vvarden**. It’s plural because of the *-i* suffix. Dwemeris doesn’t mark number, from what I can tell (except in pronouns?); likely from some intense syncope which also caused a lot of syllabic consonants and/or epenthetic schwas. (Prefix **ah-** of indeterminate meaning; maybe **vvarden** went through apheresis and lost the initial vowel? More research/sources needed.)

**Btham** is probably related to *bala* in some way. Conversely, it could be a derivative of **bthar** which is established to mean “allied.” I’ve interpreted it as the former thanks to correspondences in the Falmeris.

The final analysis, with gloss:

**Dwemeris:**
&gt;**Chun thuamer arkngd chend duathand, th ahvardn btham.**

&gt; thus 2P.GEN-people drive-PASS.PCP-PST? enter 1P.GEN-hall / and fortress power

**Falmeris:**
&gt;*ye sa sou meldi calne tarn va nou molagnenseliye trumbi nou bala*

&gt;and so 2P.GEN drive-PST group pass into 1P.GEN fire-water-hall-PL-and fortress-PL 1P.GEN power

**Translation:**
&gt;*And so, your exiled people enter our halls, and the fortresses (of?) our power.*

Curiously, both sentences lack any sort of possessive construction in the final part, so it could mean something different, or it could be a case of dropped copula (fortresses *are* our power).

So far, Dwemeris, curiously, shows head-initial behavior, which contrasts with both English and Falmeris, which are both largely head-final.

Unfortunately I don't have a lot of time to work on this right now thanks to my current schedule, so I'll update this post with the rest of the sentences if I can get around to them sometime soon. (Maybe I should’ve waited until I had the full text translated, but I wanted to get this out while I was working on it so you all could give critiques during, and not after, because certain things here might affect future translations.)
