---
title: "Calcelmo's Stone: Sentence II + Dwemeris Phonology notes"
reddit: 3nn6n7
author: YouMaySayImADwemer
date: 2015-10-06T00:19:31Z
---

* [Sentence I](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3ni0s7/translating_calcelmos_stone/)
* [Sentence III, Minor Revisions, and the Avatheled Kagr](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3nss6v/calcelmos_stone_sentence_iii_minor_revisions_and/)

I corresponded with /u/RomanNumeralII for this one. We traded ideas and I think I’ve got a clearer understanding of how Dwemeris works as a language.

&gt; **Amz thuamer ahrkanch kemelmzulchond aka Mora, th thuangz ahrk, th duum melz thuabtharng, th kanthaln duabcharn mzin thuastur, btharumz thuamer zel.**

&gt;*ilpen av sou meldi nagaiale as guntumnia spantelepelaelia arani morae
ye sou liebali racuvane ye nu rautane sye ye nu hautalle nou buroi
gume sou gravuloi sa metane sye garlis*

&gt; *ILPEN of your exiles dead-LE by GUNTUMNIA SPANTELEPELAELIA kings of the forest
and your LIEBALI were cast down and we RAUTANE SYE and we HAUTALLE our vassals
GUME your GRAVULOI so METANE SYE caverns*

Let’s take this one section at a time.

&gt; **Amz thuamer ahrkanch kemelmzulchond aka Mora**

&gt; *ilpen av sou meldi nagaiale as guntumnia spantelepelaelia arani morae*

There’s the occurence of our friend **thuamer**/*sou meldi* “your people/exiles.”

Next **a(h)rk-** &amp; *nagaia-*, and **-anch** &amp; *-le*. Since we have established that **a(h)rk-** has an approximate meaning of “exile, drive,” and *nagaia* means “dead,” we can assume **a(h)rk-** has a broader meaning in this context. I believe the endings are some form of passive or causative.

We have the obvious correspondance in **aka Mora**/*arani morae*, meaning “kings of the wood.” [UESP](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Calcelmo's_Stone) suggests that it’s a shortening of “Atmora,” which may be plausible.

This leaves **kemelmzulchond** = *spantelepelaelia*. [UESP](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Calcelmo's_Stone)’s partial translation of the Falmeris leaves *SPANTEL-speak-throat*. *Span-* appears in a zone in Oblivion, in the name *abaspania*. **Kemel** has been established as “cliff.” **Mzul-** might be related to **Mzulft**. /u/RomanNumeralII suggests that they are adjectives relating to **aka Mora**/*arani morae*, i.e. the Nords. The partial translation of *speak-throat* agrees with his assessment, as it probably refers to the Thu’um. The Dwemeris translation is cryptic, but it likely means the same thing. I ended with “shouting from their cliff towers.” (More work is needed on how **kemelmzulchond** is actually compounded, i.e. **kemel-mzul-chond** or **kemelmzul-chond**, etc.)

I’ve left out translating **amz** and *ilpen (av)* because I wanted to look at the rest of the sentence structure to see if there was any correlation. My conclusion here is that **amz** and *ilpen (av)* both mean “because,” because the final part of the sentence has no **th**/*ye* “and,” and the Falmeris uses *sa* “so.”

&gt; **th thuangz ahrk**

&gt;*ye sou liebali racuvane*

Very clearly “and your ??? fall.” Not sure where the *-ne* comes from, possibly a tense suffix? The lack of suffix on the Dwemeris verb suggests that Dwemeris doesn’t have any way of describing it. Maybe Dwemeris has a distinction between past/non-past only?

*Liebali* appears to be a compound of “tree-stone-PL,” which I’ve interpreted as “houses.” The Dwemeris equivalent is reconstructed as **angz** (not **ngz**, since I’ve yet to see a completely vowelless word except for **th**, which gets some lenience as a conjunction).

&gt;**th duum melz thuabtharng**

&gt;*ye nu rautane sye*

**Duum** = *nu* “we,” and is phonetically similar to “Dwemer.” Could be a compound of **du** and something else or is just directly from *dwemer*.

**Melz** = *rautane*, again with a *-ne* suffix. **Melz** could be a root all on its own, but it’s possibly **mel-**. Given later how it also appears in **btharumz**, I posit that **-z** is a first person verb ending, possibly even related to Ayleidoon *-r* as seen in *racuvar* (via rhotacism, likely an areal feature not shared with Dwemeris). Could be the copula “be” or maybe “become,” given the context. *Rautane*, then, is probably “ally.”

*Sye* is likely the accusative/objective form of “you.”

**Btharng** recalls **bthar** “allied.” Might be a derivation as “ally.”

&gt; **th kanthaln duabcharn mzin thuastur**

&gt; *ye nu hautalle nou buroi gume sou gravuloi*

The meanings for this part are essentially guessing, since there’s very little translation.

*Nu* = “we.”

*Hautalle* has the same *-le* suffix that is in *nagaiale* earlier. I still think it’s a causative of some sort. Here it’s probably something like “were made to run” or something like that.

**Bcharn** has been used in a few places before: the [Karstangz-Bcharn](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Tribunal:A_Show_of_Power) in Tribunal, and an inscription in Dragonborn’s Nchardak which reads **enkagr bcharn**. I translate it as “machine,” though a simple semantic shift can be used to get to the Falmer *buroi* “slaves.”

**Mzin** = *gume* = “from,” given its position, referent, and length.

**Stur** = *gravulo(i)*, probably an agentive noun (i.e. “-er”) given what we know about Ayleid derivation. The only place *grav-* gets us is “ugly.” I made this “enemies.”

&gt; **btharumz thuamer zel.**

&gt; *sa metane sye garlis*

**Thuamer** again backs up the claim that *sye* is accusative.

*Garlis* has been established as “caverns” (Ayleid Reference Text), and **zel** appears all the time in Dwemeris. /u/RomanNumeralII suggests that **zel** is related to Ayleid *sel* “hall” and Dunmeris *tel* “tower,” which I agree with. Given the Dwemer’s lifestyle, it would make sense for “cavern” and “city” to conflate into one word: **zel**.

Returning to **btharumz**, it is probably something like “give.” The **-z** ending appears again, serving for the subject.

**Dwemeris:**
&gt; **Amz thuamer ahrkanch kemelmzulchond aka Mora, th thuangz ahrk, th duum melz thuabtharng, th kanthaln duabcharn mzin thuastur, btharumz thuamer zel.**

&gt; because 2P.GEN-people exile-PASS cliff-tower-shouting king forest / and 2P.GEN-house fall / and dwemer be-1P 2P.GEN-ally / and run-2P? 1P.GEN-machine from 2P.GEN-enemy / give-1P 2P.GEN-people cavern

**Falmeris:**
&gt;*ilpen av sou meldi nagaiale as guntumnia spantelepelaelia arani morae ye sou liebali racuvane ye nu rautane sye ye nu hautalle nou buroi gume sou gravuloi sa metane sye garlis*

&gt; because of 2P.GEN exile-PL dead-PASS.CAUS by mountainous-towers shouting king-PL forest-GEN / and 2P.GEN house-PL fall-FUT? / and 1P ally-FUT? 2P.ACC / and 2P.NOM run-PASS.CAUS 1P.GEN slave-PL from 2P.GEN enemy-PL so give-FUT? 2P.ACC cavern

**Translation:**
&gt; “Because your people are being killed and exiled by the Kings of the Wood, shouting from their cliff towers; and your houses will fall, and we, the Dwemer, will be your allies, and you run to our machines from your enemies, we will give your people a cavern.”

**Bonus**: /u/RomanNumeralII noticed a correspondence between Dwemeris **-ac/-ak** and Dunmeris *-ag* (*morag* “forester”) as an agentive suffix. The spelling with ‹c› is likely archaic, as it seems ‹c› was dropped in favor of ‹k›. We also came to an interesting conclusion about **kagr** and its derivatives, but I’ll save that for the relevant section.

###**Dwemeris phonology**

This section is largely theory and technical mumbo-jumbo, though it’s obviously based on the text.

 | Labial | Dental | Alveolar | Palatal | Velar
-|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
Nasal | m | | n | [ɲ] | ‹ng› ŋ
Plosive | b | | t d | ‹ch› c͡ç~t͡ɕ | k g
Fricative | f v | ‹th› θ | s z | | 
Liquid | | | l r | |

 | Front | Back
-|:-:|:-:|
Close | i | u
Mid | e | o
Open | | ‹a ah› ɑ ɑː

I chose /c͡ç ~ t͡ɕ/ for ‹ch› partially on personal whim, partially on philology. Presumably it derives from Aldmeris ‹ch›, which I’ve reconstructed as [x]. All the Elder Scrolls games pronounce the ‹ch› in Dwemer names as [t͡ʃ], so I managed to pick a phoneme that’s 1. plausibly derived from [x] ([x] → [ç] → [c͡ç]), and 2. is close enough that an English speaker would likely pronounce it [t͡ʃ]. [ɲ] is an allophone of /n/ before /c͡ç/.

The long vowel /ɑː/ is a relic that appears in a few Aldmeri languages, largely shortened in colloquial speech. It is shortened before three or more consonants (**ahrk-** /ɑːrk/ + **-ngd** /ŋ̍d/ = **arkngd** /ɑrkŋ̍d/).
