---
title: "An in depth Analysis of the Nine Divines"
reddit: 3q6cf3
author: LurkingHarris
date: 2015-10-25T18:22:12Z
---

The Aedra and Daedra of this Aurbis are actually quite a mysterious bunch. Though they will often interact with mortals, and they are the Gods of certain things, it's often tricky to actually understand what they do. These posts will be constructed to the belief that these Gods are more than just embodiments or personifications, and actually do something. Let's start off with the Divines:

Akatosh, God of Time: Akatosh is a tricky one, given that one could assume time merely exists by itself. This is incorrect. Dragon Breaks occur when Akatosh "loses control of time", and the ensuing chaos is the result of a lack of interaction. Akatosh also sends in jills to repair these wounds and Dragonborns should they be needed. However, despite Akatosh's heavy involvement in sustaining reality as we know it, I believe he's more of an observer. He watches for dangers, from the past present and future, as a guardian of this kalpa he has been sworn to sustain. Akatosh watches (pardon the pun).

Arkay, God of Life and Death: I feel Arkay is often disregarded as irrelevant, and merely attributed to mere funeral rites. This is false. Arkay governs the cycle of the Seasons, as well as the all important matter of life and death. I would not be surprised if it is he who makes way for natural prosperity and adversity, whilst also choosing the time to end the lives of mortals, to some degree. However, I often wonder about aging. Aging is a direct by-product of both time and life, so it is plausible to believe that Arkay and Akatosh collaborate on the idea of life as a whole.

Dibella, Sex, Beauty, Art, Love: Dibella is interesting for me, because I feel her power and influence on Nirn is less about her literal abilities, and more about how her philosophy and those who would follow it. Dibella changes the world through her cults and priestesses, be it sex, art, music, and even healing. Her followers help to guide *some of the forces of love*.

Julianos, Wisdom, Logic, and Magic: In my opinion, Julianos is actually one of the most powerful divine beings. Many would dismiss him, as magic comes from the stars, which were created as a result of Magnus, and the Magne-ge. But I see these stars as wounds, transporting extremely powerful energies into the world that were never meant to be there. Magnus shows little interest in the affairs of this world, and would likely wish to preserve the power which he avoided wasting on the creation of Mundus. So who keeps the wounds open? I believe it to be Julianos. Perhaps these stars are now also utilised to spread his message, as all those who look up at the night's sky stare in wonder and deep thoughtfulness. To look to the stars is to look to Aetherius, and there are those who would care for nothing but the threat of rain and storms the clouds would bring. Who looks at the stars, but the ones who are curious, who want to know the secrets of this world. Logic, wisdom, and thinking, all aspects of those who would study this world, all those blessed and guided by Julianos.

Kynareth, the Air, the Sky, the Heavens, the Elements, *Beauty, *Love: Kynareth's tears are said to be the rain, as she mourns for the death of Lorkhan. It is that rain that allows crops to grow and flora to prosper. It is the air that allows these Mortals to breathe freely, and her elements that fall under the control of men, for natural and unnatural needs. She was the one who created the space in the void for this world to be created. Kynareth to me, creates and maintains the necessities of life, and her love of mortals has allowed her to harness her powers in unbelievable ways. If Mythopoeia is believed to influence immortals, then her power is no surprise. It is she who protects the sailors and travellers, it is she who brings good luck to the ordinary lives of mortals. Belief in Kynareth is prominent throughout Tamriel, especially Skyrim, as Kyne. Personally, I believe Kynareth to be one of the most powerful divines and the most powerful Goddess without a doubt. Not just because of what she does, but why. If the rain is indeed her tears as she mourns for Lorkhan, is it not surprising that she works so hard to maintain the world? No, not at all. She honours the sacrifice Lorkhan by bring *beauty to the world, and protecting it. I do not believe these actions are just out of love, but it is indeed love that gives her the power to do so. That is why beauty and love also fall under her, if you ask me.

Mara, Love, Compassion, the Bounties of Nature: I see Mara and Kynareth as extremely similar deities, almost suspiciously so. I believe she is the one who allows mortals to love, and guides them towards their life partners. Her love is different and infinitely more powerful (IMO) to that of Dibella. Whilst that Goddess focuses on physical, sexual embrace, Mara's love is the love that cannot break, cannot end. The relationship of Mother and Child, Father and Child, Mother and Father, Brother and Sister, these are the works of Mara. Kynareth bares similarity in the fact that she too works out of love and the natural requirements of all types of life. What is life without love, after all?

Stendarr, Mercy, Charity, Justice, *Hope, *Social Enlightenment: Stendarr is without a doubt one of my favourite divines. For he is the solution, the hope, the idea. The idea of justice, the idea of mercy, the idea of those receiving what they deserve. He is the fear of evil men, who look to Stendarr and question their morals and their future, he is the hope to all those who fall on bad luck, believing that they need only live a life of morality to receive what they truly deserve. Stendarr is the salvation. The answer to a life of suffering and immorality, Stendarr is the retribution. As for his vigiliants, the radical daedra hunters, they are very much ironic. "May Stendarr have mercy on you, for the vigil have none to spare". However, I believe Stendarr endorses their existence, but not out of a radical idea of justice, but out of pity. He believes that as the Vigil interact with Daedra they will eventually see some of them for what they truly are, not bad. That pain, that hypocrisy, will serve as their justice, their punishment. That is why I attribute Stendarr to enlightenment.

Zenithar, Trade, Work, Commerce, *Justice: I would point out the similarities of the justice of Zenithar and Stendarr, given that both teach well lived, moral lives, lead to well deserved prosperity. However, rather than focusing on what seems to be the more large scale acts of conflict and sin, Zenithar guides and observes the more normal lives. People who spend all day working hard. One other factor I believe these deities hint at is that Stendarr allows for rising up the social ladder, getting what is deserved not just in the immortal life, but the mortal one too. Zenithar cares for those who will not be allowed to rise up in this way, so as to maintain the social balance that allows for prosperity.

Talos, War, Leadership, Society, *Existence: Talos is the most powerful divine, and perhaps even the most powerful being in existence. Whilst guiding and maintaining the happenings of war, somewhat passively, he also worked to maintain and watch over the society he built, observing and indirectly ensuring strong leadership and a civilised society. He also utilises the state of CHIM to literally hold Mundus together, as the towers are deactivated one by one. His involvement in maintaining the world in this way possibly suggests the deterioration of the empire he used to fully protect, and the limitless wisdom of the creator of the empire he believes may not need to exist anymore. Certainly an interesting God, to say the least.

Thus concludes my study of the 9 Divines that guide, protect, maintain, and watch over the world and all those who would live in it. I may also write on the Daedric Princes should this post be well received, as it took me a while! :D 

But now it's time for you. What do *you* think? Any corrections or alternative/additional ideas?



 

