---
title: "The Realm of Dieties, And The Curse of Jyggalag"
reddit: 3q8j3f
author: Rakem-Eem
date: 2015-10-26T03:49:35Z
---

I know it's long, bear with me.

I'd like to explore some questions surrounding the relationships between the deities. There are a number of contentions I would like to address.

Contention 1: Does Nirn belong to Dagon, or is Mankar crazy?

Contention 2: Is Jyggalag seperate from Sheogorath, or will the cycle continue?

Contention 3: Is there a significance to 16 Princes, or are there others?

There are also some questions I've been wrestling with:

Question 1: Why do Magnus, Jyggy, and Julianos all cover logic and magic? How are they different.

Question 2: I know that Jyggy was cursed, but how was it done specifically?

Question 3: A Greymarch every Era? Really? Cyrodil's terms of Ascension cause the curse to temporarily break? Come on, what really ignites a Greymarch?

I will attempt to address these points with an overarching theory of propositions.

Proposition 1: The whole of Aurubis is comprised of 8 by 16. It is commonly asserted that there are 8 Divines and 16 Daedric Princes (also, Lorkhan exists at the center). This assortment is categorized by a Wheel with 8 spokes. However, it is important to note that before Mundus began, Lorkhan saw the Wheel on its side. This indicates that the Wheel predates convention and creation. This is further supported by the Monomyth which cites Anu and Padomay, then Anuiel, then Auriel. This suggests that Mundus is a Wheel within a Wheel, with Auriel in the inner Wheel and Anuiel in the outer Wheel. Little is known about this outer Wheel, as it is largely incomprehensible to us mortals. Like the prisoners in Plato's cave, we can only grasp at the form of these concepts. And that is what they are, concepts. The personalities defined by the commonly known deities are simply those in the inner Wheel which closest reflect the concepts comprised by the outer Wheel. This is why many are able to mantle their way to divinity, and the source for many ascension accounts throughout history.

Proposition 2: Since the outer Wheel comprises 8 and 16 with 1 in the center, all deities are limited in walking in one of the 25 ways. There are only 25 deities. One of the greatest heresies taught to scholars today is this notion that there are innumerable deities, both Aedric and Daedric. Rest Assured, there are only 16 Daedra Princes, 8 Aedra Divines, and One glorious Center. This was the truth which Saint Alessia tried to teach us. Many revisionists will say that Kynareth was a politically expedient fusion of Kyne and Y'ffre. HERESY! Kynareth represents the concept of the outer Wheel, and the cultural perspectives are mortal's attempts to grasp the divine. Soon I will conduct a thorough study on these divines. It will be dangerous, however, as it requires a comparative analysis of the Daedra. This is why most Novice scholars fear to discuss these notions. But that is for another time.

Proposition 3: Since the Wheel is comprised of only 25 slots, Magnus must lie in the role of one of the 8 Divines, or on of the 16 Daedra, or both. During creation Magnus designed Mundus. At some point, when Mundus was activated, Magnus, Akatosh, and the other Aedra discovered that they were tricked by Lorkhan and that they were dying. It was reported that Magnus then fled by leaping through and leaving a hole which is the sun. It is also recorded that Magnus was blinded by observing Lorkhan having his heart torn out. These events are contradictory, unless they both took place at once. The presence of the eye of Magnus also suggests that at least a part of him did not escape (some believe this "eye" is merely a title, but if Lorkhan's heart can be a real heart, then it should follow that the eye of Magnus is actually his eye).

Proposition 4: During creation, Magnus was torn into 3 parts: 2 parts daedric and one part aedric. The other divines were probably split in a similar way. During the exit of Magnus, several things happened at once. 
Firstly, it is said that Magnus lept out of Mundus. This alludes to the Leaper Demon King, who is Mehrunes Dagon. This is further implied by the actions of Dagon, both in seeking to take back the eye of Magnus and in taking over Nirn. If Dagon was once Magnus, then it would justify Mankaar Cameron's claim that Dagon owned it.
Secondly, in order to make such a leap, a significant amount of power would be needed. Historically, we have seen multiple instances where individuals attained such a power through Lorkhan. ALMSIVI used Lorkhan's heart to attain power, and Alduin devored the souls of Shor to gain power. It is not unreasonable to therefore assume that Magnus has a relationship with Lorkhan's heart, especially since he was the Witness during the altercation which removed it. This aspect of Magnus likely manifested as Jyggalag.
Lastly, as evidenced by the presence of the Eye, a lasting vestige of Magnus remained in part of creation. I believe this remnant is commonly referred to as Julianos.

Proposition 5: Jyggy, Dagon, and Julianos are linked by their nature. I will go into greater detail about these three in my comparative analysis, but it is important to understand the basics. Julianos has the nature of wisdom. Wisdom is the prudent use of knowledge. Together, Magnus wanted to create Mundus. This required know-how and the will to create. Julianos and his wisdom is logic through purpose. When Magnus split, Dagon emerged. Dagon is a corruption of Julianos; he is purpose without reason, ambition without logic, passion without wisdom. This is why he is so destructive. Conversely, Jyggylag is logic without purpose. Reason is its own end, cold and passionless. There is a line in Kipling's poem "If" that says: "If you can dream, and not make dreams your master, if you can think, and not make thoughts your aim". Dagon is a path where dreams are the master, and Jyggy is the path with thoughts as the aim. Julianos is the wisdom that Kipling speaks of. The nature of these three is inseparably linked.

Proposition 6: The curse of Jyggylag involved Lorkhan and the Greymarch involves Mehrunes Dagon. When the Daedra cursed Jyggy, they reenacted the events of Magnus' sundering. Since Jyggy used the Heart of Lorkhan to launch Dagon, the curse required a tampering with the Sithis shaped hole where Lorkhan's heart used to be. This twisting inverted Jyggylag, but it did not change its purpose (because remember, Jyggy and Sheo must still contradict Julianos and keep its place within the Wheel). By becoming Sheogorath, the nature remained the same. Julianos is reason with purpose, Jyggy was reason without purpose (manifested as useless logic), and Sheo was reason without purpose (manifested as madness). This curse twisted Jyggylag, without breaking the Wheel. But because Sheo/Jyggy was linked to Dagon, the curse is always lifted whenever Dagon invades Nirn. The closer that Dagon comes to reaching his goal, the closer that Jyggy comes to reaching his. This is what causes the Greymarch.

Proposition 7: The COC succeeded by witnessing Dagon's defeat. Every mortal which tried to mantle Sheo in the past failed, because they were not able make the staff. In order to make the staff, one must be able to take an eye which saw ancient things and one must face their own reflection (ironic that Magnus lost his eye after seeing ancient things and was summarily defeated when he was faced with the reflection of his designs, ambitions, and works). But the COC was able to recover the eye which witnessed because he himself witnessed the fall of Dagon. Similarly, he was able to face himself as he mantled Sheo because he already faced himself at the Temple of the One. This was how he was able to break the curse, despite all logical predictions.

Either the curse of Jyggylag was forever broken (I believe it was) or a new Greymarch will emerge during Dagon's next attack. But I have said enough for now. I hope you found this discourse insightful, and I welcome any feedback.
