---
title: "Classifieds for the Skingrad Informer for 7th Mid Year 1E 2839:"
reddit: 3qxl45
author: Trials_and_3rrors
date: 2015-10-31T04:39:22Z
---

JOBS

The East Weald Inn seeks cleaner/Hours: Four in the afternoon until Eleven at night/Pay: Three gold per hour/Contact: Smells-of-Yeast/No experience required.

Ilend Hassildor of Vlastarus Farm is looking for a clerk to manage the estates finances. Previous budgetary experience is required. Preferably applicants will be Colovian or Breton, others need not apply. Pay will be negotiated later but will likely be low with… additional benefits.

Builder required finishing construction of house. Pay dependant on quality of work. please contact Badnir Stoneplacer to begin immediately.

The Imperial Legion wants YOU! Travel to exotic locations. Make lifetime friends. Get paid, and serve your Emperor in glorious combat like the Heroes that secured the Black Marsh. Nibenese, Colovian, Breton, Nord, Redguard, Kothringi, Orsimer, Kajiit, Argonian, Lilmothiit, Bosmer, or Altmer – All are welcome! Contact Captain Hosidius to learn how you can advance in rank and history!

A quick reminder that we, The Skingrad Informer, are still looking for a new feature article writer to replace our temporary writer Inius Gravius. No experience required.

REAL ESTATE

**For Sale:** Small town house near the north east of Skingrad city. Two Bedrooms, one Washroom equipped with light engraved runes for water dispensation, There are nearby stables available with the Cursed Pass Farm. The house will be available for inspection on Loredas from 10-16 and on Tirdas from 16-19 o'clock. The house's current estimated price is Eleven thousand gold

**For Sale:** Large house across from the Grand Chapel of Julianos, with clear view through to the chapel. Four Bedrooms, pure spring water drawn from underground to provide two luxurious Bathrooms, and the latest in rune based kitchen ware. Inspection of the house is available by appointment only. There will be an auction held outside the Grand Chapel of Julianos on the 17^th Mid Year, the starting bid will be Thirty Thousand Gold.

**For Lease:** Two hundred and Fifty hectares of farmland between Skingrad city and Old Nornalhorst. Please contact Ancus Labouche for more information.

OTHER NOTICES

The society for the preservation of Skingrad seeks to raise an additional Four hundred and Fifty gold this month to spend on an additional project to be revealed by the 21^st of Mid Year. The project is to be a surprise until then and will be revealed within the Skingrad Informer.

The Imperial Guard announces the closing of the Pass Below Cornerclub, this is due to recent brawls that the Dunmer club has experienced, and is for the safety of this peaceful community. The Imperial Guard notes that we have seen increasing rowdiness in local Dunmer communities and suggests that they proceed carefully.

Paint brushes, 1 gold, middle of town, most mornings.

Hello my name is Parwen and I am seeking a new loom, if you would happen to please have one that you no longer need, I would be very grateful if a could purchase it from you. If you have a loom available you can contact me by finding me at the Straight Steel Forge where I work from Morndas to Fredas.  I am willing to pay up to 20 gold if that is okay by you.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you for reading, and your next issue of the Skingrad Informer will be available on the 14^th of Mid Year.
