---
title: "The Secrets of Bonemold"
reddit: 3tke54
author: invisiblemonies
date: 2015-11-20T13:48:42Z
---

*To Tallenus Crava of Bruma's Guild of Smiths*

My dear master Tallenus,

I am pleased to tell you that my stay in Morrowind has proven more pleasurable than anticipated. Rumors of the natives' resentment have been greatly exaggerated in my opinion, even if those of their secrecy are not. The Dunmer guard their inner workings well, and are loath to speak of their arts and politics even when breaking bread with you. And it must be noted that my observations hold most true of the Dunmer of southwestern Morrowind, where the ways of our Empire has penetrated most deeply.

But despite my comfortable surroundings, I have learned little of their weapon and armor-making. The exact manufacture of bonemold still escapes me, but I have a series of hypotheses to present. As of yet I cannot verify them with finality, but I believe they contain insights of practical, or at least scholarly, interests.

1. Alchemy is a prime component in the manufacture of bonemold, and the recipes are guarded closely by the craftsmen of the Great Houses. In fact, it seems the Houses hold a near monopoly on the production of bonemold, which I find both curious and enlightening. It tells us much of the hierarchies of knowledge that predicate so much of Dunmer society.
2. At several occasions did I hear Dunmer refer to bonemold equipment as *aedribekh*, a term that at first left me confused. I consulted linguists and scholars, and it seems that it is a term from pre-Tribunal Morrowind; a amalgamation and corruption of a term for "ancestor-wreathing/entombment". Studying the bonemold armor further, it becomes clear that each design is closely tied to a single Great House. Now, the Dunmer are well-known for their burial practices, but also for their ancestor-worship. Perhaps this worship is more intimate than we think; I believe that the bone components of the armor are in fact at least partially made of *Dunmer* bones - those of esteemed ancestors. It seems savage, I concede.
3. It seems very likely that bonemold equipment is not tools of war as much as they are symbols of devotion. They are an expression of incredible intimacy. Perhaps they only became durable and functional weapons and armors over time as the craft was perfected; the few examples of old armor I have seen looks primitive and fragile compared to newer models. I believe bonemold started out as trappings of religion, and with their later perfection only then assumed their current use.

I hope to soon know more of this mysterious phenomenon.
