---
title: "Concerning the Origins of the Last Dragonborn Part II - the Siege Begins"
reddit: 3v6w9v
author: TheDragonGod
date: 2015-12-02T20:45:33Z
---

**PART ONE**: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/3umqvc/concerning_the_origins_of_the_last_dragonborn/?

Severus Aurelius, First Scholar to the Elder Council,

It has been too long since I first sent my first letter regarding the translation of the Qethsegol-Kuld. Having seen your fascinated reaction I have since been determined to finish another Segment of the Script. It refers to the journey of the Three Heroes from Odanhiim to Dovahrunir:

*The Battle out of the city was devastating. The bright eternal Dragon Fires blinded them, concealing the way. The only option was to run. And run they did. With their almighty thu'um, the three heroes shouted down many dragons in their path, yet they could not save many of the civilians. 53 were dead by the time they escaped the Dragon's Foul Wrath. However, they did indeed escape, fleeing from the ruin of a city to the wide open tundra of snow turned water by the singeing flame.* 

*They marched onwards. Injured, half dead, and spiritually shattered. Yet they went headed out with one word in mind: survival. By the time they'd reached the border of the hold through into the golden plains. 22 more fell, leaving 35 left, and the three heroes. It would take a couple of days for them to arrive at Dovahrunir, and both Hrelvas and Hroldar were optimistic that they would get there alive. Srevlir Dragon-Seer, far seeing and wise, however, was not. His face was grim and pale in the torchlight. And his gaze frequently turned from the people to where he came from, the emotion of fear consuming his face. "I must go to the Western Mountains, for there I will see the darkness that approaches us".*

*"Are you mad, old friend?" Hroldar shouted, "We could not go that close to Bromjunaar, we would be spotted and killed in an instant!"*

*"You underestimate my abilities, Hroldar. I will be safe, but I must go alone. Take the civilians to Dovahrunir, alongside Hrelvas. I will join you when I can".*

*And with that he departed. Running towards his goal, his destination, in search of the truth of this unknown danger. Hroldar thought him a fool, but Hrelvas, his closest friend, knew better. He himself had seen every single prediction of Srelvir come to light, and he was grim throughout the journey.*

*They headed further south, closer and closer to their destination, with not a dragon in sight. But Hrelvas's mood worsened tremendously, as every single noise alerted him in a frenzy of fear. "Hroldar, I cannot continue like this. Go to the western and eastern cities bordering the lands of Dovahrunir, and plea to send soldiers to our destination. I fear that danger is closer than we think" he said. Hroldar was opposed to the idea, yet his respect and loyalty for Hrelvas overpowered such thoughts.*

*And so the band of three became one. Hrelvas took his followers to the City, his mood barely adapted to present circumstances and the precautions put in place. Yet there was nothing that could be done to prepare them for the truth...*

This is as far as I have gone. But, should your interest be maintained, I will in due course translate more and send it to you. However, I first think we should consider what has happened so far. It is apparent that the visions of Srelvir are indeed true, and that the disunion of the trio will indeed have consequences. We will have to wait and see what threat these brave heroes faced, and how their story ends.

Yours Faithfully, Arch Mage Savos Aren, of the College of Winterhold.
