---
title: "Orsimer C0DA pt. 1"
reddit: 3wak10
author: Cachaemic_Calix
date: 2015-12-10T23:06:39Z
---

It was the 10th of Frostfall in the four hundred and seventeenth year of the Third Era. Deep in the Wrothgarian mountains lay Orsinium, the haven for all those sheltered by Mauloch, also known as Malacath. In some hidden hall lay a she-Orc in the throes of child birth, the priests crowded around her, chanting and casting spells of endurance and healing. 

"Do we know who fathered this child?" the High Priest asked. 

"She claims it was Trinimac," the Temple midwife replied. 

The High Priest was taken aback by this, surely it must be an omen of the future and reaffirmation to the Miracle of Peace. He joined in the chanting and wove in his spells with the other priests. Hours later the child was born, and rested in his mother's arms and nursed. The Priests of Trinimac discussed about the child and it's mother. 

The High Priest began,  "No one has said that they've seen anyone with her and we know Mauloch has bestowed children on Orc maidens before, but could it really be Trinimac?"

The other priests thought about this, they all knew the history of Trinimac and his changing, but could he still live inside the Orc King? Could there be something left of the past glory of the slayer of Lorkhan? They decided to just leave it alone and would raise the boy, the mother had vanished into the mountain passes and could not be found again.  

Minash looked the same as all Orcs, skin with a green-grey pigment, glossy pale eyes that glowed with rage and pride, but, he stood out with his hair. It was unlike anything they had seen, it was as white as the snow capped peaks in Wrothgar.

         A FEW YEARS LATER 

Minash was about to reach his fourth winter and was already able to speak clearly and read. The High Priest was fond of the child, he'd take him on walks around the city and to the surrounding area. When the Priest would do his duties Minash was the charge of the other priests. 

It was a cold morning in Sun's Dusk when the Warriors visited the monastery. Their armor was filled with motifs of Trinimac, the sundering of Lorkhan, and the shunning of Mauloch. They all had medium length tusks, carved with similar themes as their armor. 
"Burgulg, are you here?" The biggest one said, he easily towered over the others and his armor was covered in notches and his face was scarred. 

The high priest came back from his study with Minash on his shoulders. 
"Yes, Kruugz," Burgulg said with mild distaste, "what do you want?" 

The giant swayed on his feet before he began to speak "We're here to see the child of Trinimac before we go hunt the Man-Boars in the passes."

Burgulg looked as if he would strike Kruugz. He placed the child on his feet in front of them. Minash stood as the warriors dropped to a knee and chanted in the Orc tongue. 

"Gro-Trinuk, urgush braogur ruuraz." they said collectively. This was an Orc phrase that roughly translates to "May our weapons be brothers". 

Before he stepped out of the hall Kruugz spoke to Minash personally. 
"I hope you join our ranks one day," and with that he swaggered away and let the stone doors close behind him. 

           GROWTH OF TUSKS 

Minash was heading towards adult hood. His tusks were just a little too short to be made a priest. The priests were considered to resemble Mauloch more so they were made priests to repent their nature. The priests would adorn their tusks with rings and carvings. Burlgurg had the largest tusks of any Orc in Orsinium, they curled backwards and ended about mid-cheek. He was getting old now, ten years past when tribal Orcs seek out an honourable death. 

Minash belonged to the Warriors, he was to begin carving his tusks soon, which meant he'd be going out and dealing with local problems. He had heard more people calling him the son of Trinimac lately, he did look different from the others. His skin wasn't as green and his eyes were more gold, he now had his hair dreaded so he could worry more of training than grooming. He was put in Kruugz Order, those that used their Orc rage to reach clarity in battle instead of bloodlust, they fought with skill and strength and they were feared, even by the other warriors. 

The carving ceremony was that night, there was no going back. He was to join Kruugz and leave the monastery, he could visit whenever he wanted, as long as he wasn't on away killing the local wereboars or dealing with bandits who were getting cocky. 

The whole city was out tonight, it was always a party when the priests and warriors had their tusks carved, the merchants had it easy, they would have theirs filed down, since they were the smallest, and their jaws were removed of underbites. The Warriors went first, and since Minash was the top of his group he went first. 

His first tusk is almost done, it depicts the rise of Mauloch, for it is a reminder of the Orcs of what they come from, it is a reminder of their history of savages, it is there so they know that they can not change the past, but the future holds possibility. 

As the last cut is done the city's bells begin to ring out in sequences of five. Attack, from mages. Minash leaped towards the tent flap, causing the blade to slice his lip. There had been Orcs found with their bodies mutilated, from organ and limb removal, to as if they had been used as target practice for destruction magic. It was time to end the death of his people beyond their front door
