---
title: "Application of magic in everyday life"
reddit: 3wky57
author: LordElantri
date: 2015-12-13T00:02:44Z
---

Application of magic in everyday life
Author: Archon Elantri

In the aftershock of the Oblivion crisis, hatred against the art of magic was starting to appear.  People was starting to raise questions about how this event was allowed to go as far as it did.  Many people was pointing towards the mages guild, saying that without the Mages guild spreading magic, allowing everybody to learn magic was the reason that a cabal of mages was able to hone their skills without being noticed. They said that had the mages guild not existed, a gathering of competent Spellcasters would be more noticeable. Because of all the accusations, the mages guild was closed and in its place more exclusive guilds of magic appeared. Namely the Synod and the College of whispers. The one saying that the Mages Guild was one of the reasons that such a big group of Spellcasters could gather without bringing notice to themselves were probably right. Such an open institute, where everybody could learn the art of magic would indeed result in an increasing amount of competent Spellcasters.  When public fear of magic increased, together with the political pressure made the Synod and the College of whispers replace the mages guild, the wrong decision was made. By making magic more exclusive, fear of magic was allowed to grow, without positive exposure. After all people fear what they don’t know.

Before, during and straight after the oblivion crisis, the mages guild educated Spellcasters was everywhere. Before the Crisis, lots of Spellcasters were having normal jobs in town and hamlets. The jobs they had were jobs such as making sure the wine was chilled for the rich, they had places of healing, and they warded farmer’s fields, so that they would repel harmful bugs. Food shortages were therefore unusual. Every town had several healers; fewer people would therefor die from infections and wounds. But once the Oblivion started, and passed everybody forgot this fact.

During the Oblivion Crisis, most of the combat oriented Spellcasters were fighting of the Daedra, making sure civilians were able to get to safety. While the ones more skilled in healing would heal the wounded. We have several stories about telling how Spellcasters were ether sacrificing their life to save refugees or leading them to safe havens. Therefore, thousands of people owes their life to the Mages Guild.

But after the Oblivion crisis, the dealings of Spellcasters got more secret, less open for the public to see, making distrust and hatred grow. If this trend continues to grow, one would not need to be able to see into the future to predict that soon magic will be outlawed in at least one province. Reports of rouge mages hiding away in caves, killing travellers are increasing. We need an open institute where one can go to learn magic and magical etiquette. We need to reincarnate the mages guild, we need to bring magic back into everyday life. Doing so would reduce the numbers of rouge magic users. 

We need to bring back the ones that warded, a farmer’s field, healed our sick, repaired the stuff that could  not be normally repaired. We need the ones that could chill a taverns wine cellar, or divine the future. We need the magic back into the everyday life of the people...

