---
title: "A Collection of Nordic Hjul Biscuits for Auction"
reddit: 3y4d52
author: wry_not_dead
date: 2015-12-24T21:37:51Z
---

[These fine, first-era hjul biscuits](http://imgur.com/XXTs0xU) make a fine addition to the holdings of any discerning collector of art or antiquities. The tradition of Hjul biscuits has faded with certain other aspects of Skyrim's Old Way, although the practice persisted amongst rural populations such as the Skaal until late in the third era; recently, separatist factions within Skyrim have sought to revive the tradition, increasing public awareness and collector interest in the process, making this the perfect time to buy. 

Hjul biscuits were traditionally left in tombs and barrows as an offering to the All-Maker, so that he would not go hungry if he honored an ancestor by stopping to warm himself at the hearth of their barrow. In certain tombs, the biscuits have survived preserved for centuries; while certainly too stale to eat, their near-fossilization makes them quite durable, easily able to sustain long voyages and even very public display. The biscuits are most traditionally shaped either like men or various animal totems associated with the Old Ways, and then decorated to represent something unique to the family in question; a wolf might be colored to match the family crest, or a man-shaped biscuit decorated with an ancestor's distinctive scar for example. 

A curious tradition in the oldest extant examples of hjul biscuits, including the set for auction today, is the presence of unmistakably chimeri or dunmerish figures. Because the biscuits were made with molasses, first pillaged from Resdayn, some experts believe these figures may have been a boastful offerings of the mer slain to make the biscuits, while others cite the merish shapes and ingredients from Morrowind as evidence of chimer origins co-opted by their Nordic neighbors. 

The Dunmer featured in this particular set is especially unique, and contributes to the high starting bid of this listing. The unmistakably golden right hand of the figure, combined with its hairstyle and dress, seems to clearly indicate that the biscuit depicts Alandro Sul. Experts have long debated the nature of Wraithguard in Nordic tradition, where some have insisted the “wraith mail” of Nordic songs refers to an altogether different artifact, others have insisted it is merely the poetic name for the Wraithguard of common knowledge, and a third camp attempted to integrate the two by either claiming Wraithguard was once a hauberk or complete suit of armor. As a marked example in favor of one argument, this biscuit has not just artistic, but significant historical import. To further foster refined discussion if those adherents of other views become discouraged, one may cite the depiction of Sul as a dunmer, rather than chimer, to evince that this evidence, while important, remains inconclusive.  

The other intact biscuits in this listing reflect traditional totemic shapes. The green dragon with a belly full of silhouettes is thought to represent Alduin devouring souls, while the shining silver dragon may represent one of the Dragons who allied with men in the Dragon wars, perhaps even the legendary Paarthunax. Lastly, there is what appears to be some manner of elk; potential buyers are to be assured its apparently mutilated feet are, by all appearances, an intentional characteristic. Its festive, bright coloring gives it a decidedly jolly appearance, but one must acknowledge that the garish coloring makes the elk, merry though it may be, something of an eyesore. 
