---
title: "Denial: the insecurity of being"
reddit: 3z4sst
author: Milkpulp
date: 2016-01-02T11:40:03Z
---

 Denial is a constant theme of TES. My view of the meanings of the Monomyth say all of it starts with the Godhead denying itself with the interplay of Anu/Padomay/Nir. The Godhead is trancedent in nature and each aspect of it is necessary for the others. Anu is substantial and meaningful only in relation to it's ability to manifest with the purpose/desire of creation/manifestation which is Nir. Together they constitute creation by Will and Love. Padomay is Anu's subconscious insecurity of the substance of itself and it's desires as nothingness/illusions. 
 The fighting between the 3 show Anu was insecure with itself and destroyed most parts that had manifested through desire (Will and Love at once). Anu was then secure in it's knowledge of self inflicted suffering through profound loneliness. Think of it as a mind that manifested a body but with that satisfaction thought itself mundane in it's exactness then in a fit of insecurity tried to cut itself I to a better shape and was overwhelmed with pain and regret.rh Anu now certain of it's insecurity, collected it's diminished parts and is struggling to connect and love iself as it once did: perfect and whole. I liken this to Buddha seeing the world full of unmet desires and suffering which is mythically/metaphorically set by his debate with the personification of desire/insecurity in the demon king Mara while meditating under the Bhodi tree.
 
 The creation of the current Amaranth as a fractal gradient of spirits fighting to assert their Will over each other all the way from the coalesced duality of the Void, through Aetherius which is made of the exactness of being/soul Anui-el and it's wound Sithis. Here is where each thing is a subconscious metaphor for Anu's many parts interacting/healing/fighting. The spirit of Time(heals all wounds right?) is personified through Auriel(the beginning) and is mirrored by the the personification of Time's current Limitations as Lorkhan(the current end). The other Et'Ada are the personified magic made between Auriel and Lorkhan, with Magnus being the neutral Et'Ada that helps Lorkhan and Auriel design Mundus, Mundus is the realm wherein all desires can be made real on equal grounds and something substantial ei:Love can be created because things matter more when they can fade away forever. Love and Will are necessary to achieve CHIM, which was the point of Mundus, it's likely not impossible for Et'Ada to achieve it since people say Lorkhan could've but chose to fail in order for a better being to do so. Numidium is denial personified and is defeated by Jubal who marries Vivec with the blessing of Talos/Lorkhan. Their love heals the Heart of Lorkhan, blah blah blah everything is made right through the Will of Love and the Godhead is now a flower child in the Nu-Mantia Amaranth. 

TL;DR: Denial is the enemy of being and to be means acting through the Will of Love, connecting the singular self with everything else, accepting the conditions of life as a challenge to overcome because God is Tsundere acting in TES.
