---
title: "Unexpected residents of Mundus 1- Daedra"
reddit: 402rni
author: OtakuOfMe
date: 2016-01-08T19:58:31Z
---

(This is my first attempt, roughly connected to 'minor races'. And yes, I could be sorry for my english but anyways...)

Daedra are commonly known to be inhabitans of the very different realms of oblivion, but some seem to live on Nirn. Nothing new.
There are some who were summoned permanently and also some banned with the same magic. A few were seen in Morrowind but that are not those I want to talk about.

It seems that there is a way to live regular on Nirn/ Mundus without been summoned. Therefor an interesting example from ESO:
*Herald Kixathi*, nearby Halcyon Lake in Bangkorai
She is a dremora, a 'primeval seeker' and thus searching for knowledge in the name of Hermaeus Mora. If asked, she explain that her master told her the secret of binding herself to Nirn.
Exactly. What does that mean in details? Sadly she won't give us the answer for this. At least: It is possible.

Daedra aren't loyal to their original 'birthplace' as we can assume. But no matter where they may stand up again after death, it is always somewhere in Oblivion. They are literaly formed out of the stuff Oblivion consist of, the chaotic creatia. They don't have to fear mortality at all, as long this connection stands. So, what are the consequences for our Herold?
Tied up to the mortal and fragil Mundus, at least she would be in any way vulnerable. The most would expect her to be mortal. But how mortal exactly? Does she grow old (!) and dies like everyone else or is she just meant to be killable?
Both ways inheret the question what may happen to her 'soul' after death. Up to the dreamsleeve? Despite that reborn in Mundus/ Oblivion?
Is her soul even affected by the binding? Is it changed, formed of other creatia, reformed... ? Only Herma Mora will know...

Actually my point here is: There can be more Daedra among them, although we didn't met anyone beside her who are binded that way.
i wonder this and where they hide/ what they do. I mean: Who even know about that? They are somewhat of a minor race to Nirn, minor in numbers. They have to be out there... 

What are your theories about that? Do you think the same as the last mentioned?






