---
title: "Unexpected residents of Mundus 2 - Vampires/Ghosts"
reddit: 403jp2
author: OtakuOfMe
date: 2016-01-08T22:49:52Z
---

After a merly proofen kind of 'citizen' in Mundus, I directly come to these very prominent guys. Why I even consider them 'unexpected'?
Simple the fact that they are originally not *planned*. While the construction of the realm with all his rules, one of the first rules was:
All things must end and die to return. We will leave the dreamsleeve-aspect aside and turn to the fact, what those creatures are: undead, not alive. 
We know that these are merly just words in TES, they are anchors of being. A description of how it should be, was thought. And I don't mean it was on purpose.. just inherent of the world of Mundus. Molag Bal was the first to change this aspect, tear human being nearly apart to introduce something new to the little world: living without actually living.

What happen normally after the death of men or mer? The soul goes straight to the realm it is bound to, in most cases Aetherius. Recycled and back again for a new living. The 'vessel' was leaved behind.
But what is this vessel? In my eyes a projection of the soul itself like the shaping of a dremora when he came back but without 're-use'. A one-timer, I guess. However this works, this have to be the way of Mundus. 
You will ask: What is with the vampire's vessel? Think of them as kind of daeda/padomaic spririt. They can keep their vessel no matter what will happen. This seems to be Stone-Fires 'gift'. Sadly, it is imperfect. Vampires can be 'killed' and should (?) be spawned at Cold Harbour, Molag Bals realm. This would be one theory.

Another would be that they keep living with their use of foreign blood. Draining someone's blood aka live essence aka manifestation of an anuic soul. In both cases their souls are in some way corrupted. They are likely a complete new being/race. They are no longer part of the dreamsleeve-system until they're cured. Is this cure a exchange of souls or a 'reperation' of the claimed soul via a 'healthy' one?

What I wanted to say, is: They keep self-control over her vessel/vestige/whatever. And yeah, the soulless one seems to fit in the same cheme without being a bloodsucker.
Who can also be seen in half-controled vessel after death? Ghosts indeed. Their case is it to have unfinished business that keep to soul strong enough to be hold by Nirn and not going as instant-new-life to the dreamsleeve. 

Now we could hang up mystical and come to the conclusion that really every being in the Aurbis can have some kind of vessels, even et'Ada. But instead of being mortal, they can change this like a party-game.
So, you may assume that actually this (anuic) imprisoning of souls into Mundus give them the process of 'to die'. But as you see, this ~~rule~~ effect is not an almighty principel.

Now, I think about the dremora again... She could still be very alive in the 4th era...

The residents of after-live were not expected, but were they surprising to come at all? maybe not...
What do you think about them? Very tricky or just failure of Mundus?
