---
title: "On This \"House of Dibella\""
reddit: 407lp5
author: LoneChosenDweller
date: 2016-01-09T19:14:58Z
---

To Amennius Carix, Count of Cheydinhal

Honored Lord, I have taken the time to write this letter because the street that was once dominated by noble merchants of all trades has been infected. I am, of course, referring to the so called “House of Dibella”. To act out such profane “worshipping” in an environment of craftsmen and nobles, and most disgustingly in the name of a Divine, offends not only me, but many more. To name a few notable people I have been talking to, whom wholly agree with my standpoint. 

Lord Lammel, Indaco Saven, master smith and armorer, Goran Janus, patron of the Cheydinhal Bridge Inn and many more. I myself, as owner of twenty per cent of this county, and proud owner of the finest manor in Cheydinhal, find it unacceptable that this House of Prostitutes lies only a stone’s cast away from my hearth, and that these whores befoul the ground I walk on. I have even heard rumors of you yourself, Count of Cheydinhal, utilizing the services of this cesspit. I know this to be false, of course, but it shows what a whorehouse in a fine city can do to alter a reputation as honorable as yours.

I will not tolerate the presence of this “House of Dibella” any longer, and should it not be removed within a moon’s turn, I will know the foul rumors surrounding you to  be true, and reinforce them to the best of my ability.

Signed Lord Malus Cristasus, Lord of Cristasus Farm and Cristasus Manor.



