---
title: "A Khajiit Explains Riddle’thar"
reddit: 40gq64
author: scourgicus
date: 2016-01-11T13:21:41Z
---

“Why does practicing martial arts help Khajiit find their place in Creation?  That is very confusing.”

First, let this one welcome you to the Temple of Two-moons Dance; he knows that many tail-less scholars struggle with Khajiit ways and will try to explain.  Truly, though, this one is only a simple Khajiit and may not have the words.

You have heard the Khajiit masters say that by practicing the Dance, Khajiit practice Riddle’thar:  this is true.  Your confusion lies in misunderstanding the nature of the Dance.  Two-moons Dance is not simply a way of hurting others – that is a certainly part of our training, though Khajiit would say it is a way to defend themselves and others – but a way of training the senses, body and responses.  You must understand, tail-less scholar, the importance of this last.

All of Creation is torn by conflict, no?  That is what is meant by “Arena”; that is what is meant “Khajiit are always at war with Nirni.”  When faced with endless conflict one must learn to survive not only the battles one faces – but their consequences.  Khajiit learn to embrace life – to cherish it – and flow in its malleable patterns.

Khajiit sees by your forehead furrows that you are confused.  Forgive, and allow him to try again.

Think of water, especially the water of a stream.  When all is well and the sun is warm and the sands gentle beneath one’s feet the water flows kindly.  But when the world becomes cold and harsh then water freezes – it is then you know the strength of water.  In times of great calamity, when fire rages and heat scalds the land, water becomes mist that rises into Khenarthi’s breath and seeks a home elsewhere.  

This is the Two-moons Dance; this is Riddle’thar.  This is the way of the Khajiit.

