---
title: "The dreamt dreamer (Another Dreamsleeve-Theorem)"
reddit: 40jit9
author: OtakuOfMe
date: 2016-01-11T23:17:35Z
---

&gt;Not a total new topic but more a try to blend things together to for my favourite hypothesis. (sorry for my english!)

The Dream is, as we know, not just a not-existent plane of fantasy. Hints on Vaermina, of course. But that's not the real matter here. I only will put out that Vaermina is not that mighty as some think, with powers to interfere reality through dreams. 

My guess is, hold on: Dreams are actually the Dreamsleave (DS), or more accurate, *one* version of an DS. It's the old debate, if the DS is a physical place or just a kind of transport-vehicle for after-death-souls.
I will argue that they are both and linked to dreams.

There are lots of in-game hints that you may die in 'reality', if you die in the dream. The same for wandering in dreams sometimes. Logical you take part in dream on a higher level as imagination. If we take the dream as common realm, - nothing to wonder about - our soul is actually *there*, with vestige like a ghost...
But who creates the dream? Exactly, you own self. And if the dream is real enough to hurt you AKA is a real world on its own, you create something when you dream. Now just think of the godhead. Tada.
See the parallel? Inception-like a dream within the dream. You are the godhead of your dreams, create a kind of mini-aurbis. The only thing is: You already know that you will awake again, destroying the dream until the next mini-kalpa, if you want so.

About Vaermina: She kinda *hacks* your dreamworld, has found a way to block it and take your soul right another way to her realm. That brings me to the next step: Why is your dream a DS?
What happens if a mortal die? His soul will land in the DS and will be recycled. My attempt at this -&gt; The all-known DS is simply Arkays (or even Akas?) dream. His created world as he 'sleeps', sort of.
So, instead of dreaming, you are dreamed.
 
**The dreamer became the dream.**

Just: Arkay will not be awake soon. His 'weekness' turns to a help for the imprisonend. I like this idea, even if wrong. Maybe an answer to the rituals after death, dedicated to him.
Your can put this farther. There can be multiple DSs. As example, I think, the owned DS of the Hists is connected to her home plane or just a circle in mundus... Same thing for Vaermina.

At last a counterpart: Dagoth Ur. He seems to dream after he is already dead. Yeah, I read the texts about him here. As pointed out there, he hacked Arkays DS as well, strong enough to stand without left as ghost. Then he created a dream of himself, planted in Mundus. As he was killed, actually his dream-self was killed. As mentioned above: Instandt-kill for his true self. Bye Bye Ur. You can bash me for this, but personally it fits me well.

Conclusion: TES would be than a great narrative where dreams are more real than 'a real thing'. Not surprising. But see at the stuff that happens, when 'wake' beings use creatia and knowledge to change anyhting -&gt; Thu'um, Spinning, Kynes Breath. Methods of speaking or even shouting. But more effect needs no higher volume. What are dreams finally: silent thoughts in your head. But I could you sell it all under mythopoeia anyway... 

P.S.: 'Creating' without Amaranth? Have I misunderstood that thingy or did I wiped it out... just a joke. Maybe.
 
