---
title: "Why Anui-El and Sithis exist"
reddit: 40pzr9
author: Mdnthrvst
date: 2016-01-13T02:56:38Z
---

Think about this for a second. The well-established theosophical orthodoxy of TES lore, on a grand, grand, **GRAND** scale, has it that a person named Anu observed the death of his beloved, Nir, and was so disconsolate with grief that he fled into the sun and dreamed forever of a new world, anon Aurbis, Mundus, Nirn, Tamriel and all the rest.

At the same time, this dream, this world in which is set the Elder Scrolls, is *infested* with two dueling impulses, white and black, Anui-El and Sithis, preservation and annihilation. Neither of which, on their own, is any good at all, a fact that their respective partisans all fail to see but which is plainly obvious. You can't build life solely out of inertia or entropy. Nothing new.

But why is that? Why does the world of TES take the shape of a swirling ideological yin-and-yang symbol? Because it just does? Because circles are magical? Those answers aren't satisfying.

What I am proposing is that the latter circumstance is explained by the former. Tamriel is a world born from a widow's grief. A man whose brother killed his wife and who fled into the sun to be alone, forever, dreaming of a new world apart from the one of his birth.

What kind of head space would that widow be in? What kind of influence would his subconscious exert upon his dream?

What if Sithis is the sublimated manifestation of Anu's nihilistic despair in the face of a world where his beloved is dead? Inconsolable grief and loathing, directed both inward and outward, which in his dream mean the same thing? It would explain why Sithis is always seeking to tear apart the foundations of the world he is ostensibly a part of.

And what if Anui-El is an obsessive counter-reaction, a deranged sort of nostalgia, Anu's manic compulsion to remember, relive, crystallize and thus leach the value of every perfect thing he ever knew?

I am proposing that Anu, in his dream, is trying to destroy an unbearable future and preserve an ideal past at the same time. The Aurbis isn't a yin and yang because someone thought that would be a good look. It's because that's the obvious shape of your dreams the day after your wife is murdered.
