---
title: "Fur patterns - A Clan Mother about Beauty"
reddit: 41kt1l
author: OtakuOfMe
date: 2016-01-18T20:25:40Z
---

&gt;The following transcript was translated from anequinain dialect of Ta'agra. Errors may so occur. It is set on a teaching of clan mother Dra'Zahnri in Jhahal, a village nearby Dune.

*Annotations from the almost bent live of a mother*

"Dear kittens, as you are all sitting near this one to hear a story at the camp fire, you will already know something about it.
This khajiit should take a different approach this time and telling you a theme that seems to matter only hairless ones."

A broad laughing was heard from the crowd, sounding like the snickering of little hyenas. One only show a still glance of his eyes. The most of them were Suthays and Cathays, but there were two alfiq, one dagi and one senche listening.

"This one might have not seen much from the landscapes of Nirni, but I was always told how I look away when it comes to mere beauty.
*S'Zhanri - you have just eyes for sugar and your moons.*
*S'Zhanri - you don't look for a husband, or at least a wife.*
*S'Zhanri - you can't look sober and clean with this carpet on your skin.*
All the human and elvish nonsense about the importance of attraction and superfacil appearance. There is much more as to see with ones eyes, although all the said things may be true.... This dra will you tell a better example of what right beauty may be.
This khajiit here! What makes this cat special?"

All eyes were bind to the dagi, who was a shy one. But nobody laughes anymore in front of the middle-aged clan mother which face was still.
"This one... don't know. This one is a dagi."
His voice was cracking from the little speech, not needed before.
Clan mother S'Zhanri gave him a warm smile instead and continued without looking away from him.

"Of course this dagi is a dagi, what else? Little one might think, are special in this group because of this fact, but ja'khajiit is wrong.
Look- If this one, J'Khal, is among other dagi, one is just special like before. It's what beauty means. 
No one can tear this apart from these ones. The furry skin and its lovely pattern. Look at these bodies- lucky tails and fine ears. Sharp teeth and claws. Always lusty for ones kind of sugar if hircine calls. The appearance matters, but really matters the how it's percieved. One's beauty lay in the eye of every khajiit.
These will find more about it in time, just be sure to shine and dance bright in the moons with the knowing of being exactly that kind of khajiit you have to be. Even dagi one. The moons make no mistake, they are blessing all. Showing these their path through life and love. And love comes through beauty. But beauty comes from the heart.
That was the lesson for today. Khajiit will hear your thoughts about it next time.
.....Bright moons, this lesson was an easier one."

Everbody stands up and wished the clan mother her respect, smiling broad with the new knowledge they learned. J'Khal was tagged along with the others, smiling even brighter and secretly thanks the moons for this special lesson.
_________________________________
P.S.: Originaly planned for the 'beauty-week', now I've got time to this.
