---
title: "A notice found in the mess hall of Fort Hawkmoth"
reddit: 41m0ri
author: rocketmantan
date: 2016-01-19T00:41:36Z
---

CONCERNING THE PRESCRIPTION AND USE OF UNIFORMS

26 Last Seed, 3E, 433

It has come to the attention to the officers at this Fort that there may be some 'confusion' regarding the proper uniforms one should wear while on duty.

WORK UNIFORMS WORN BY THOSE ON GARRISON/PATROL DUTY WILL NOT BE TOLERATED. The Iron Plate uniform is strictly BATTLE DRESS. We are a garrison force - the people of Vvardenfell are not our enemies. Unlike in Cyrodiil where  almost every legionnaire has the luxury of wearing plate armor in lieu of segmentata, we cannot afford to give the Legion a belligerent appearance. present ourselves as an invasion force here in Morrowind. That is why you are required to wear your service segmentata armor. You already get to choose a particular style of Segmentata you may choose to wear, but if we continue to see soldiers wearing the iron plate without authorization we WILL revoke that right as well.

Remember that the political situation here in Morrowind is still a highly delicate matter. The service segmentata presents a much more polished and professional appearance as opposed to the beaten, utilitarian iron plate armor, but still provides ample protection for most operations. Remember that only when a state of war or emergency has been declared that the Iron Plate Armor may be worn in lieu of the service uniform by garrison soldiers. If in doubt, always check the plan of the day.

As a result of the numerous uniform violations we have been seeing, a service segmentata inspection will be held at 0700 tomorrow during morning formation. Those on watch will be present at evening muster for inspection. Consult the Legion rules and regs if you have any questions concerning uniform and grooming standards.

Remember that you are all soldiers of the Imperial Legion in a foreign land. You are all representatives of the empire and we expect you to act the part. Soldiers found in violation of uniform regulations will be written up for both said violation and for orders disregard.
