---
title: "A sermon of Zeinaak, Dragon Priest"
reddit: 425ahr
author: Heliomance
date: 2016-01-22T12:22:10Z
---

Fox. Hawk. Moth. Wolf. Bear. Whale. Owl. Snake. We revere all these creatures, they are sacred to us. But one creature stands above all, one creature only we worship and serve. Dragon. What is so special about Dragon, that we hold him above all others?

We revere these creatures for what they represent. We hold up Fox for his cunning, Hawk for her freedom, Moth for her beauty, Wolf for her loyalty, Bear for his strength, Whale for sanctuary, Owl for his wisdom, Snake for his deception. But what does Dragon represent?

Fox is cunning, but he cannot outrun a hunter's hounds. Hawk is free and Owl is wise, but she cannot outfly a hunter's arrow and he cannot outthink it. Moth is beautiful, but if she flies too close to the fire she will burn in an instant. Wolf is fierce and Bear is strong, but they cannot stand to armed warriors. Whale is mighty, but if we were not greater than him, he could not have nourished us. Snake is deceptive, but if we see him we crush him beneath our boots. We respect them, but we stand above them. 

Alone of all the sacred creatures, Dragon stands above Man. Alone of all the sacred creatures, Dragon is mightier than Man. Alone of all the sacred creatures, Dragon can speak, can think, can desire. Dragon alone asks to rule over Man, and Dragon alone has the power to do so! 

Dragon stands above every other creature in Skyrim, in Tamriel. For every other creature may fall, to blade, or claw, or sickness. Man or mer, fish, fowl, or beast, every other creature is mortal. Only one creature in this world is immortal, and that creature is Dragon. And so I ask you, why is it that we revere Dragon? What does Dragon represent, as every other sacred creature represents something? Dragon represents that which is greater than us!

We revere Dragon for being greater than us, we revere Dragon *because* he is greater than us! And so, is it not right that we should worship him? Is it not right that he should rule over us, as a Jarl rules over the people he has conquered? Is it not right that we should pay him tribute, as citizens pay tribute to their Jarl? I tell you it is right! This is why we worship Dragon! This is why we serve him! Not just because he is stronger than us, not because we cannot defy him, but because it is his right! Because he is not just greater than us, he is greater than all! Dragon stands above every creature in Tamriel as in Atmora, as god and king, and I tell you that this is how things should be! This is the proper order! When we worship Dragon, we do no more than pay him what he has earned by his greatness. And that is well and good.
