---
title: "Saint Alessia: Founder of The Mythic Dawn"
reddit: 42igf3
author: Rakem-Eem
date: 2016-01-24T23:45:27Z
---

I have long debated with myself whether or not to share this theory with you, my esteemed elder scholars; for it is surely controversial. I would not that you brand me as a heretic, but it is vitally important that we ask difficult questions about our foundings to therefore find greater truths. This theory involves the circumstances surrounding Saint Alessia, the Dragonfires, and the dynamics which shaped the course of men.

According to legend, long ago, Alessia rebelled against the Ayleid rulers and set up an empire in service to Akatosh and the Divines. Akatosh made a covenant to keep Oblivion away from Tamriel by giving his own blood to Alessia on her death bed, which later came to be known as the Amulet of Kings. But there are some problems with this story.

First, why would Akatosh, or any of the divines support Alessia through the form of a rebellion? Does Mara bless those who love or those who, bound by hate, kill and fight against their own oppressors? Do the coffers of Zenithar carry currencies in the form of clashes and conflict? Nay, they do not. No, it is through the ambition of Mehrunes Dagon that rebellions take root, and it is through his aims that they do prosper. It is my contention that Alessia brokered a deal with Dagon in order to overthrow the elves.

This theory is further supported by the fact that Alessia was dragonborn. One can discern through Mankar Cameron's Commentaries that one can become a dragonborn by using Mehrune's Razor, and if Alessia was in leage with the Prince of Repellion, this would come as no surprise. I have another theory that dragonborns are abominations of Hermaus Mora, and the fact that these Commentaries are from Xarxes support this (perhaps I will speak more of this at another time). 

Alessia made a pact with Dagon to overthrow the Ayleids, and after she died, Dagon would be allowed to unmake the world into Dawn's Beauty. But she did not honor this deal. Before she died, Alessia took the stone of White Gold, and bound her soul to it. Because Alessia at this point was no longer a rebel, but an empress, she was able to to use the power of the great ruler, Akatosh (which I will soon expound upon). 

Since Alessia lived on in the Amulet of Kings, the pact with Dagon remained unbroken. This is why the necessary condition to keep Dagon away was the lighting of the Dragonfires. How do you think those fires were lit? By some musty torch? No. The fires were kindled by the very Thuu'm of the Empress herself, spoken through the voice of her heirs. Every time an emperor died, Alessia would consume their soul as do all dragonborn. The College of Winterhold knew of this, and Malyn Varen tried to replicate its affects through Azurah's Star (It seems that's all that college does, foolishly fail to replicate divine feats which they are neither mentally or intuitively equipped to manage, but I digress). This is also why Tiber Septim went at such great lengths to achieve divinity, for it was the only way to avoid being devoured by Alessia and the Amulet of Kings. These events were rechoed in a dream I once had of a Titan called Chronos who devoured all his sons until one named Hercules arose, but again I digress.

How did Alessia do this? How did she betray Dagon? She reenacted the events of creation. During creation, Lorkhan convinced Magnus to become the architect of creation. When it was nearly finished, Auriel and the others felt themselves being ripped towards it. But the work was not yet finished, it could have still been undone. But Auriel acted recklessly. He had Lorkhan's heart ripped from his body, and sent it with his arrow deep into the earth. This arrow was made from his very blood, bones, and mighty scales. As this arrow of Akatosh and Heart of Lorkhan fused into the earth, life was conceived in the womb of Nirn. The creation act was sealed. Magnus, the architect of creation, was supposed to be the one to impregnate Nirn, but he was diminished to the role of the witness. As he witnessed this feat, Magnus found himself torn into many places. Part of him was torn towards the creation he was supposed to inhabit, while another part was torn to the Sithis shaped hole which undid him. In response to this, Magnus leaped out of creation. Myself and many others believe that Magnus then became Mehrunes Dagon, and wishes to unmake the world so that he can rule as he once wished.

At the end of Alessia's life, the same thing happened again. Alessia, though an Akatoshian ritual bound her dragonborn soul inside the Amulet of Kings, a gem comprised from the blood of Lorkhan himself. Just as the arrow of Auriel and the Heart of Lorkhan sparked life into the earth, so did the blood of Akatosh and the blood of Lorkhan spark the soul inside the Amulet of Kings. And once again, Dagon was betrayed, and was helplessly forced to once again play the role of the witness to the Lorka/Aka trickery.
