---
title: "Dreamsleeve stations: trans-oblivion communication headcanon"
reddit: 42o5hn
author: Sammish42
date: 2016-01-25T22:24:48Z
---

I keep seeing references to this magical internet concept being thrown around in some threads here. Unsatisfied with what I could find, I tried to tie it all together by making a headcanon thingy of my own about it.

Although used only by powerful battlemages and imperial bureaucrats today, the dreamsleeve network was once a widespread part of everyday life. A reliable infrastructure was established under the rule of Reman II in the late first era, then gradually fizzled out before finally collapsing in the Oblivion Crisis. While it was still active, dreamsleeve communication was both accessible and affordable to the average commoner.

The collective unconscious network, referred to as the 'Akashic Records' in previous kalpas, is accessed through meditation. One must reach a telepathic lucid trance state in order to receive memospore transmissions. Most people choose to make their own apparati. A tarnished mirror, a crystal ball, a scrying pool, all of these work fine as a locus. Images are not meant to be seen within the reflections, but rather in one's own mind with the reflections acting as a focal point.

Professionally made dreamsleeve stations are powered by magetallow candles and usually consist of a crystal ball mounted on a pipe organ. By pressing keys in certain patterns, users can musically create, retrieve or reshape thought-data in accordance with the Cyrodiilic interpretation of Tonal Architecture.

Thoughts can be stored locally in soul gems, or may be transferred to the Clouds. The stations are often used to send and receive packets of information, but are also used by Moth Cultists to browse personal ancestral lines and select individual memories to experience.

Here is [a picture](http://m.imgur.com/Dx68bt5) of some dreamsleeve stations from Septim's reign.
