---
title: "Children's Book - About the Dwemer"
reddit: 434ws8
author: scourgicus
date: 2016-01-28T19:35:15Z
---

Once upon a time there were elves – lots of elves! There were Woodsie elves, Watery elves, Ashy elves and elves that Thought Too Much of Themselves. But this is a story about the Elves That Said “No” – they were called the Dwemer.

The Dwemer lived underground and they liked to make things – lots of things! They made steam engines and hot-air zeppelins and even robots. That’s right! While all the other elves were building Towers or making spells or exploring the world, the Dwemer were making robots – lots of robots! Robots that looked like spiders or robots that were balls-that-rolled-around or big sad-faced robots that looked like people (they were a little scary). And so the Dwemer made things, and thought their thoughts and that’s how it was for a long time.

But one day the Dwemer had an idea – a Big Idea! It was Very Important to them. They decided that nothing really existed, that everything around them – caves and trees and oceans and animals and the gods and the stars and other people – was One Big Lie. I know that sounds silly but the Dwemer were very smart and thought Deep Thoughts and that’s what they decided: nothing was real. That’s when they started to say “No” to Everything.

And then the Dwemer decided to do something about it.

The Dwemer built the biggest robot they had ever made – really big! It was a thousand feet tall and looked very grumpy; they named it Numidium (which some people think means “New Medium”) and it made the other elves very nervous. Nobody was really sure what the Dwemer were going to do with their Big Robot – some of the elves thought they were trying to make a new god to Stomp on everyone and they got very angry. There was a lot of fighting and a lot of people got hurt. And then the Dwemer turned Numidium on.

And everywhere in the world, all at once, the Dwemer disappeared. And they were never seen again.

Nobody really understands what happened or what the Dwemer were trying to do. Maybe they wanted Numidium to Stomp on Everything. Maybe they wanted Numidium to take them Somewhere Else. I think they wanted Numidium to help them forget the world didn’t exist. But everyone knows this: the only thing Numidium ever said was “No” and anytime someone turned it on it would Stomp and Stomp and Stomp until some Hero was able to turn it off or use magic to send it to another plane(t). Some people think that one day Numidium will Stomp and Stomp until it breaks the world – and then the world really won’t exist anymore.

So what can we learn from the story of the Dwemer?

Maybe we can learn it’s okay to say “No” but it’s also okay to say “Yes.” There are some things you should say “No” to – bad things – but not Everything. Because when you say “No” to Everything you end up saying “No” to a lot of things that might not be so bad: trees, animals, people, songs. If you say “No” all the time then “No” becomes your whole world, and the world might start feel like a Prison you can’t escape. And you might do something bad just so you can feel free.

.‪#‎theelderscrolls‬
.‪#‎C0DA‬
.‪#‎C0DAnext‬
.‪#‎AKhajiitC0DAverse‬
