---
title: "The undead cabinet of Tamriel"
reddit: 43g3t0
author: OtakuOfMe
date: 2016-01-30T21:53:14Z
---

&gt;Undead. Undeath. Plague of Tamriel. I make here a short numbering of undead sorts kinda.

**1) Vampires** 

Discussed very much. *Molag Bal intervention*, bound to Coldharbour probably, but not necessary. Still living, having soul, although it seemed not entirly sure if they even were all dead or just infected by the *desease* to be turned instead. The first vampiress *Lamia Bal* was indeed dead before rising as a vampire. In any case blood seemed to be needed to live on, but weakens their powers. They come in many forms an strenghts, some of them vulnerable to 'Sunlight' more or less.

**2)Skelets** 

Rised up, meaning bones reconnected to a whole thing to... dig other bones out, as did by the worm cult. Soulless magicka-products, *brand Mannimarco*. But sometimes they are full of a soul. Mostly as a *curse* (e.g. the Kothringi by Clavicus Vile), without intention (the 'giant'-quest from Greenshadow) and even *as a wish* (one man and his dog in the Alik'r) to live forever. Just without all the drinking, eating, sleeping etc.....

**3)Zombies**

 Tricky one. Skelets with flesh on their hips practically.

a) There are the indeed installments, somehow activated with magic like the *Ra-netu*, drawn people who are especially a problem for the ancestor-loving Ra Gada.
Or are they even as well a work of the god of schemes, being vulnerable to *Meridias Light*?

b) The ones summoned from *Soulcairn*, but how are they different? Maybe they are actually their own beings, just having fun looking pale and thin and so...

c) The ones who are made 'undead' with help from special mechanics. There are the seeds of the blood vines, put into people by the *bloodthorn cult* in ESO. The evolved method of the *briar hearts*, more nasty and conscious, somehow related Hircine now instead of Molag Bal.
And don't forget about these horrible *heart stones* from the inner red mountain, a plagiate of the last method.

d) *Draugr* Seems to be a different case of the unliving via arcane arts? Maybe the heard Alduins Comeback or maybe bound as zombies/ghosts to the dragon priest, although not every ruin has one. (Added by /u/BrynjarIsenbana)

**4)G-g-ghosts** 

a)Ah yes, the ghosts - mainly bound souls to Nirn, wether because of own unfinished business or as a curse again. 

b)*Wraiths*: Maybe to differ as a special emotional wrecked version of ghost, with nothing than instinct left.

c)Sometimes summoned from their peace to lead the hero. Or from the own *ancestor* line to guide and protect.

-&gt;b and c from /u/BrynjarIsenbana again

**5)Lichs**

... nasty necromants who wanted to be immortal just like her idol Mannimarco I guess. It is said, that the Lich being is the highest form of necromance. Put their soul in a phylacterion and then digging it back into their dead body, tricking Arkays ways. But if they are killed, they just turn to *Nether Lichs*, which are practical ghost with no possibility to return. Notable Lichs are probably the nordic *Dragon Priests*.

Edited according to /u/Tx12001 and /u/Rosario_Di_Spada

**6) Others** 

If we take it further, you could call a *flesh atronach* an undead, being made of...flesh. And there is an quest in ESO where a 'wizard' bound his son to such a thing, wanting him not to die. What a grace.

The soulless one, I think.

EDIT: Another method is the bounding of a daedroth to the body. (-&gt;/u/Samphire) Fancy and cruel all together. Happened even to animals according to an ESO-Quest in Auridon.

QUESTION: Can the resurrected dragons be entitled 'undead' in some way? So, is resurrection at all linked to the undead territory? I personally think so. Point to /u/Ostarand.

Anyone forgotten? Say it! 
