---
title: "[AKC] Understanding the \"Memories of Ra'zhiin\""
reddit: 445z1l
author: scourgicus
date: 2016-02-04T16:24:07Z
---

Understanding the ‘Memories of Ra’zhiin’:  A Landfall Season Missal
Priestess Jaadi, Temple of Crescent Moons
Khenarthi’s Roost, Elsweyr
6E 117

“We are the Khajiit.  Our blood is registered, by force, with c0da.  And though the world forgets…Khajiit remember.”

It is with these words that Ra’zhiin, the Prophet of Azurah, began his “Memories.”  They were written on a voidship as he travelled form the Remains of Nirn back to his home on Masser.  Two centuries of theological reflection upon the Prophet and his “Memories” have failed to grasp this most important of his truths:  the Prophet did not make pilgrimage to the Remains to plant a Seed of Memory that would lead to the Renewal of All Things (though that is what happened) – he did not then know what the Clan Mother had given him.  Rather, he went to make peace with the past.

Though it is now fashionable to treat the Prophet as a holy figure, worthy of veneration (which he is), it must be remembered that Ra’zhiin was and is a Khajiit like any other – though not, given his experiences with the Heart of Lorkhan.  And with so long a life come many Memories, many horrible Memories:  the Last War, Landfall, the Coming of the Worms, the First War, the predations of the Bal cults…all these Ra’zhiin has seen, and more that are not spoken of in his “Memories.”  How then can he say, “Love overcometh all things” when there is so much darkness?

It is because of the Prophet’s Belief in Memory.

The past is never truly lost – nothing is truly Forgotten.  For many this is a terror, the eternal presence of horrors or regrets.  But the “Memories” teach us that we are not fear the past, but embrace it.  By seeking understanding we remove the fangs of our hurts and see them – not as the transfigured monsters that haunt us – but as the experiences of a life lived.  “This happened, on this day, in this place – and yet this one is still here.”  As the Prophet might say, Memory is a sign of victory – we Remember because we have Survived, but more:  we have Overcome.

In this Landfall Season, as Nirn becomes visible to the many peoples living on the Moons, this one invites all release the fear of Memory, for our Mother Returns to us everything we thought gone forever.  The message of this season, and the testimony of the Prophet, is this:  nothing is forgotten, and nothing is ever truly lost.

This one wishes you blessings.

*

“All will change…”

*

.#C0DAnext

*

For more on "A Khajiit C0DAverse" go to:  https://www.facebook.com/AKhajiitC0DAverse/
