---
title: "Princes of Oblivion: Philosophy"
reddit: 44d8gj
author: OtakuOfMe
date: 2016-02-05T22:26:04Z
---

Now comes my attempt on the princes main characteristics, in the form what kind of philosophy/psychology they maintain. And of course it is only my interpretation, but I am pretty pleased with the finished work. I intentionally let Jyggalag apart and just call the sixteen in eight pairs. (Now I see there is an unused comparision with THE eight, hmm. I will bring up a second version for that.) It shows both the positve message and the possible negative outcome (or the just the other side of the medaillon). Let the curtain rise:

**REFLEXION**

*Initiation*: Azura   - Have trust in you and your fate. And only that.
                               NEG: Vanity or Blind following

*Insight*: Meridia - Find the enlightment in you, keep it in temperance.
 NEG: Greed or Degradation of others

**JUSTICE**

*Necessity*: Boethiah - Proof your worthiness with all means
 NEG: Betrayal 

*Respect*: Malacath - Take your right to sentence equality if needed
 NEG: Revenge (without regret about consequences)

**PASSION**

*Expectation*: Clavicus Vile - Don't let your compassion make your decisions
 NEG: Wrong decision

*Memory*: Hermaeus Mora - Don't seek to forget, seek to preserve
 NEG: endless hollow seek

**INSTINCT**

*Challenge*: Hircine - Measure you with concurrents and catch the prey first
 NEG: Disturbance, being just an animal without an aim

*Value*: Namira - Don't be worthless. Take part in the world
 NEG: Decay (Ferocity that is to be used)

**ACTION**

*Reformation*: Mehrunes Dagon -  Reform the old to anew being
 NEG: Destruction (of the old without anewing)

*Plan*: Mephala - Pull the strings and watch instead of being deedless
 NEG: Cold Calculatio

**EXPERIENCE**

*Leadership*: Molag Bal - Lead to give them the advice you got from lifes pain
 NEG: Domination, Sadism

*Interpretation*: Vaermina - Learn from weakness, use your pain
 NEG: Masochism

**FREEDOM**

*Skill*: Nocturnal - Do what you can, as long no one will see you
 NEG: Hypocrisy

*Carefreeness*: Sheogorath - Do what you want, make no constraints
 NEG: Absurdity

**BALANCE**

*Penance*: Peryite - Hold the worldly balance, sacrifice if needed for the greater good
 NEG: Forced Order (pestilence)

*Satisfaction*: Sanguine - Hold your inner balance, enjoy everything
 NEG: Ignorance

&gt;Again, this was it. Questions?


