---
title: "Princes of Mundus: Philosophy of the Eight"
reddit: 44n4gp
author: OtakuOfMe
date: 2016-02-07T19:28:25Z
---

This is the continuation of that [post](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/44d8gj/princes_of_oblivion_philosophy/). Eight limbs for the sixteen concepts of Oblivion, nothing new. But I give your this time not just my attempt on the eight and one, but also a comparision to latter post.

The aedra are stasis, so there concept and there belief is here also in frozen kind, a philosophy of what is good enough to be hold and maintain, making it the opposite of the ways of changing. And if you ask me why I call them 'princes' -  they are a heritage to their thinking just as the other princes are. They are no kings at all. But let's get the party started:

**STABILITY** (Akatosh)

This is the opposite of *Reflexion*. Stay what you are, don't bent yourself to a thing you aren't. His being, the time is consistence. All goes from A to B, never wanting sideways of it. You don't have to elvolve, you are already what you have to be.

NEG: Emptiness. Regression.

**LAW**(Stendarr)

Opposite of *Justice*. Be righteous and keep your place inside society. follow their rules and make sure, they follow them, too. Trust this and  don't give it up for a personal vendetta, that destroy more than just the two involved.

NEG: Inpersonality. Arrogance.

**OPENESS** (Dibella)

Opposite of *Passion*. Follow your senses, what you feel and see, but don't let you be overthrown by them. Take them as what they are: Just your door to the outer world. Communication. Art. You are part of the whole painting, don't change it to give you more part as it belongs to you.

NEG: Conservatism.

**EXCHANGE** (Zenithar)

Opposite of *Instinct*. There is always a forseen way to do something, to do it right. Pull that trigger and ignore all other possibilites. You give some and you get some, so functions the world. All has a cost and a price to pay, but also its reward. Don't honor the uncertain feeling your gut, they will not tell you how you have do survive.

NEG: Mistrust. Coldness.

**TEMPERANCE** (Julianos)

Opposite of *Action*. Logic will show you the will. You don't have to rush anything. Plans can be okay, but the life and the world itself follows a plan, you can trust. Be modest in your living and follow the path of wisdom. You learn through life anyway and don't just can force it to reveal you the important lessons.

NEG: Stubborness. To much trust.

**REALISM** (Arkay)

Opposite is *Experience*. Your life is short and determidned. Use it wisely and don't waste it with actions that outcome you can't handle. Don't just move around and keep trying. Take what is important to you and just live it. Be realistic instead of chasing dreams.

NEG: Carelessness. Self-oppression.

**PEACE** (Kynareth)

Opposite is *Freedom*. Do what you wilt, as long as it harms nobody else. Keep the message of peace in your mind to let all work together. You are all brothers and sister, there to help. Make your place in the word without destroying it, heil the nature and her law, you are part of her.

NEG: Disharmony. Wilderness.

**MODESTY** (Mara)

Opposite of *Balance*. Love you and the next, avoid anger and hatred. We are not equal in how we be used, but how we see each other, what is good. Bind together, hold together and all is okay, you don't have to worry if you got each other. It is the core of living, of what it is worth.

NEG: Isolation. Intolerance.


Now to ^the ^last ^ones:

Talos &lt;-&gt; Jyggalag, both the 'outcasted', the fifthed wheel on the car. They are the counterpart inherent to the proto-concepts of change and stasis. Talos is one who change stasis in the process of *war*. Jyggalag is one who keep all flowing down his aspect of *order*. Compared are they opposite in themselves. Order &lt;-&gt; War, the aspects of *Chaos*. They want peace on their own terms, forcing all equal, making all philosophies to one principe: **Equalness**, total. One nation with no identity.

&gt;That was it with my philosophy about aedra/daedra. If you like it, I can try it on the yokudian or khajiit pantheons.
