---
title: "Corprus: Divine Skin of the New Man"
reddit: 44x1dy
author: LiquidHurlant
date: 2016-02-09T15:03:45Z
---

~~I don't subscribe to canon, and unlike C0DA, I don't generate my own dogmas. What I type is up to me, and me and you; there is no truth here, no scholastic ego tripping over theories. These are not theories.~~

As Xal told us elsewhere, the Shopkeeper Kagrenac didn't create the Divine Skin as mere refutation of mortal gods. As the first to see the Brass God. In desperation, the Tonal Architects committed mass absorbicide to create the Mother Soul, the divine skin of a New Man. The Mother Soul is no less than the accumulated geno-spirit consciousness of the Dwemer: SHARMAT (think KINMUNE, VALIS, and BARBELiTH). This SHARMAT is a communicable intelligence, beyond the gods. She's a Devil-being, given that the gods are "alive" in worship, but dead and recycled without worship, the SHARMAT is their dream-sleeve inversion; she is alive when mortals don't worship her, and she can be communicated to them. In the Devil's case, via the Doom Drum and tools. And she learns, too.

However, being that she was made by Kagrenac, and essentially and graciously Dwemeri, the SHARMAT was never meant to commune with a Chimeri warlord. Voryn was sophisticated and cultured, he was calculating, curious, loyal, and privy in dibble-dark - he was NOT Dwemeri. Communing with the SHARMAT damaged him, mortals are "not meant to swallow a language whole." He became the SHARMAT, but a Dwemer God needs a Dwemer mind. The knowledge was there, but the integrity? Not so much. Kagrenac hoped for one of his folk to somehow find the Heart and tools. At least a being with the ungodly capacity of a mind like theirs. He may have even known of Yagrum, or Yagrum was part of the plan all along.

Anyway, the Shopkeeper's work was discovered too soon, and the war had resolved him. It was pull the plug on the project, or an intermittent hope - and hope is mortal folly. As I've said, a Chimer beast found the tools, and his henchman used them. Not to mention, the SHARMAT now shared itself with ALMSIVI.

Where Ur begot the Sixth House, the Nerevarine is their messiah. He's eaten and become the divine skin of the House Unmourned. He is Hortator of Numantia, God-killer: corprus-theon by incarnation. He did not come to save Morrowind, or shelter the close-minded! One by one, he will convert them, then in droves, then their own priests and kings bill bow. "Emperor! We are coming for you! We are coming for you, Sons of Talos!"
