---
title: "Chim-El Adabal! Speaks to YOU!"
reddit: 46n89x
author: LiquidHurlant
date: 2016-02-19T22:37:09Z
---

The Soul Cairn is thoroughly misunderstood.

What is a cairn? A peak, a summit, a horn; a pile of rock, to designate a safe path through the bog, mists, or fog. So let's understand Soul Cairn as it is: a way station. That is, the soul's port of call, in the Waters of Oblivion.

And the Chapel of Love? "Know Love to avoid the Landfall, my brothers and sisters of the past." I've heard too many bloated fortunetellers miscalculating the firmament. This "Love" was to direct us to the Chapel of Love, and to the Emerald Gate... our home beyond lost Twil. More on this later.

Who built the Cairn? The Ideal Masters identify themselves as the Makers. Take from that what you will.  We know the realm is Lordless, and the Princes of Nirn and Misrule may cross the plane, though the Masters do not recognize crowns or scepters, nor the representatives of kingdoms below.

Why are the Masters assembling whole countries of armies to themselves, if they're a neutral crossways? After all, they appear to sleep existence away. Clearly, they're mustering souls for an invasion; but who's invading whom? 

Perhaps they trap souls, just to market them off as slaves. This makes no sense. Recall the legends of the Merethic 'Shezarrines' - how those heroes levied armies, carved out kingdoms of Men, only to go missing.

I believe the Ideal Masters are war fractals of the Oversoul of Emperors: the Underking Tiber Septim, spirit behind all human undertaking. The Chim-El Adabal is but one of these bloodlines, bound to Rule. It is not physical dynasty of the Emperors, nor even they, who count. The Red Diamond is the true, Ideal Master of the Empire Actual.

They've gathered at the Emerald Gates - in our realm, the Green Emperor Way - for the defense of our souls' Cairn. For if it falls... powers help us. The Void wins. 

More later...
