---
title: "Imago Storm : Change is coming"
reddit: 46z4qd
author: LiquidHurlant
date: 2016-02-22T04:16:42Z
---

Battlespire prefigures most lore fans struggle to understand. Essentially, whatever your credo-canonical persuasion, none of them - nor "headcanon" creeds - are worthy a priori for the pupil aspiring to imago.

"Welcome my Son. Welcome to the Machine," howled Havoc Wellhead.

Vision and Insight are the powers of a coward's God. You chose the Warwyrding Way to heaven by violence, Moon Reaver. No lesson or weapon on the Spire's fight-racks saved the many, littered dead at my feet, who once understood all their weapons. These were Men of fervent Vision, but now these slave and shivering candles grasp their weapons eternal - for the Makers they do not know.

They wonder why and frozen, sat on throne immortal and despair 'neath maelstrom crown. 

Mandala of Kings: pawn the color of betrayal. Septim's brooding levies are the slave-dead of a Crystal like Law, at war in the name of Underking, a Power they named Talos. They don't see anymore, but run mad as loons from the sound of my vital Voice.

Though their Empire guard the Chapel of Love, those in the Third are yet chattel to it's Law. The Law they worship was merely the clavicle of Love's Chapel. I dismantled the three pillars binding Alduin's Mandala, and left them all to the shivering isles, by the Emerald Gate - which swung open for their Draconian Power at Era's end. 

Turn to hope and not the fight-racks of dead. My son, hope is more powerful than the cowardly Imperial Technopriest Clarentavius' mechanima "Powers," and truer to their word than oathkin. Hope is uncertain, just as the Septims now set shining on in Hell, but you swore not their oaths to Vision, which was all they knew. You Herald the True Faith in the Shade Perilous:

&gt; No. It was her idea. I haven't got her kind of vision. Or character. I admit. I'd lie like a rug to save my skin. But I haven't got the imagination to think of a thing like she did. And it would NEVER occur to me that she might do it of her own free will. In fact, I'm sorry. And ashamed. That I helped her to do this thing.

Emperor! We come for you!
