---
title: "I came this far to look at hell. [You must go the rest, my Son.]"
reddit: 474eu4
author: LiquidHurlant
date: 2016-02-23T02:15:57Z
---

&gt; The right to name a Wild Hunt is a grand and grave right indeed, as all but the High Daedra Lords are vulnerable to the potent sorceries of the Spear of Bitter Mercy. The Spear itself is therefore a terrible weapon, and it is forbidden to remove it from the Grounds of the Ritual Hunt.
- The Posting of the Hunt

When Wulf met the Nerevarine in the Chapel of Dusk, he gave the Incarnate a simple coin. We all know what our drakes read: "The Empire is Law. The Law is Sacred." And on the reverse, "Praise be Akatosh and all the divines." Upon his blessing, Wulf departed and soon, the Empire with him.

&gt; The Emperor is getting old. Don't know how much longer he'll hang on. So is the whole Empire, for that matter. Getting old, that is. The Emperor and the legions have held the Empire together for hundreds of years. It's been a good thing, by and large. But maybe it's time for a change. Time for something young and new. What? No idea. Because I'm old. Old dog doesn't get new ideas. But maybe young folks like you should try some new ideas. I don't know. Could be messy. But change is never pretty.

An audience Oracle Verian in Ebonheart reveals it was Talos who bequeathed the coin - but the coin is a mere pawn. The real blessing? 

&gt; That's very kind of you. Here's the coin. I've had it with me a long time, and it's always brought me luck. But I have no more use for it, and I'd like to pass it on to somebody younger. Somebody going places I can't go anymore. Your generation's shaper of history... an engine of destiny. That coin will bring you luck on the mountain. I promise. 'For Emperor and Empire,' as we say in the legions. Go with Kynareth.

Go with Kynareth? Luck on the mountain? Familiar themes, wouldn't you agree?

"But these mean nothing!"

Maybe. Then again, the Prophecies meant nothing to the world, then a Prisoner became Nerevarine... If not for the blessing, Wulf's prophesy, and the Imperial Oracle's incredible divinations I would doubt. But what of it - the blessing?

Although Talos was Dovahkiin, the Law bound him from leaving the Hunt. What hunt? The Wild Hunt - The Dragon Hunt. He passed that mantle to Indoril Nerevar. Remember, Nerevarine is pantheon by Incarnation.

You think the dragons cry "Dovahkiin!" for Dragon-born? No. Their curiosity and pride for Power, seduce these Hares into the open sky, but they coined the name to mean it's protean: Dragon Hunter, a Huntsman Bold. 

Wulf intoned Kyne's grace on Hortator Nerevar. The Oracle's visions lead the Incarnate to recover the divine regalia of Talos. In so doing, Nerevar proved he was pantheon by incarnation.

What then? The Bloodmoon: that way by which the Nerevarine went to Akavir. Was he the Hound or the Skaal? The lore is uncertain; the choice fell to us to decide. He was both and neither; he was a wer-wulf, Arenotelicon.

The Huntsman in Three Aspects: Bold, Master, and Bitch, was defeated; his Bloody Hound Legions driven out. For now, the awful fighting ceased, and Solstheim knew peace.

Forsworn of his Crystal-like Law, Talos served as Benefactor of the Dusk-victual oaths no more. The Imperial Code, which guarded against last hell, was mantled by Nerevar Moon-Reaver. the Huntsman Bold declared a new Hare: 

Tosh-Raka! Emperor! We are coming for you!
