---
title: "Mythic Dawn Lore Master's Journal, Pages 37-38 (first attempt at story writing)"
reddit: 478ceg
author: ShadowDestroyerTime
date: 2016-02-23T19:36:20Z
---

*Pieced together from fragments found in the Lake Arrius Caverns in the 27th year of the 4th Era. Excavation of the site continues, with hopes of finding more of this journal to gain more insights on the Mythic Dawn.*

Date 3E428

The insights given by Mankar Camoran ... helpful in understanding the true nature ... Usually his speeches are ... meant to help educate the new members of ... however, his speech included new information that not even ... had the privilege of hearing!

We all know about the immortality that we ... but none of us knew the truth behind our mortality!

Here is what I have recorded from the speech:

*Editor's Notes: Parts of the speech are missing. What is left is the fragments and guesswork of what the speech included.*

"Are any of you truly convinced that the divine spark within you is not immortal? Your bodies wither and fade away like rust on unused razors, just like the denizens of Oblivion. They shed their skins and unleash their immortal spirits unto better forms. You cannot do the same because of the trap the firmament and the so called covenant confine you to the structures of Limit-All."

With this information I will try and study this Limit-All that ... to better understand why it is that ... wants... be mortal.

*Editor's Notes: It seems like Mankar Camoran believed that we were all limited somehow and that is what made us mortal. Maybe with the discovery of more fragments I can better piece together this speech.*

____________________________________________

**This was my first attempted piece of Lore/Story Writing, I hope you like it.**

**The speech from this is from MankarCamoran's post here:**

https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/36ibu3/camorans_theory_of_nirn/
