---
title: "Magical Mechanics of Mundane Elements and the Auroras of Skyrim"
reddit: 47mmf2
author: PADOMAIC-SPECTROMETE
date: 2016-02-26T01:13:55Z
---

Dear Taylia my love, please keep this letter safe. I will not return for several months, and I don't feel safe carrying this knowledge only with me. But do not worry. It's just a precaution.

I write to inform you we've found it, however. It all makes sense! We know why the Auroras in Northern Tamriel exist! At least, we think we do.

As I've probably explained before, the strange, shifting lights seem to indicate the presence of highly concentrated magicka being diffused into something that is causing a reaction.  It's a generally sound idea within my scholarly circle that the presence of heat, sound and indeed light points to post-Aetherial currents. But think of it more as a discharge from the source, rather than the source itself. Magicka is transmitted into observable matter when in contact with another entity that has the capacity to react. Indeed, the stars and Magnus itself are not showing us a glimpse of Aetherius, but more-so they are showing what happens when pure aetherial energy diffuses with the content of Oblivion. This same principle is what governs the creation of incantations by all wizards.

Based on this, we are rather confuddled. If anything, Skyrim should have the least potential for magical absorption. The froresome nature says it all, as temperature, noticeably best in the air, indicates the presence of magicka. Perhaps also, this is proven by the ignorance of its population to the arts as well. That's a little joke, of course. 

So, obviously, the snow of this land has been our main area of study.

The snow of Skyrim is an interesting subject. A plethora of folk lore surrounds it, from its usage in archaic alchemy to the way it sometimes emits a soft refulgence during the night. But this has been a tricky one. Magicka is reflected, absorbed and reacted to differently by the many objects of the Mundas. To elaborate and simplify visually just for emphasis:

Observable Mundane Object = Reflection (capacity to reject certain frequencies) + Absorption (capacity to store certain frequencies) + Reaction (capacity to release and inability to store a percentile of magicka. Each objects seems to have a magickal limit to storage, which is why a mage must master this ability to cast spells, and why he can only cast a certain number before his aetherial pool is exhausted)

Aetherius: Pure magicka.

The Void: Possibly complete reflection.

Oblivion: Unknown absorption, varying reaction (heat, sound, light).

Air (element): High and wide range of absorption, low reaction (heat, sound [normally wind], light [normally mist]).

Mundane Elements: Varying absorption, varying reaction (heat, sound, light).


Reflected or static magicka is not visible to our eyes, as it is simply air, while absorbed magicka reacts with most Mundane contacts, becoming variables we can detect. (We cannot say the same for elements of Oblivion, but that is not within my area of study). Color and tone is dictated by the frequencies of magicka that are reacted, temperature is dictated by the amount of magicka reacted. A color of white, like the stars and indeed snow, represent near complete absorption for a range of frequencies and an substantial reaction. It is clear the snow has an exceptional capacity for magicka, which makes sense, seeing it is a form of water, the most absorptive element known to mortals. (It doesn't emit as strongly as other objects, which is why it is mostly transparent. The magicka is almost entirely absorbed and not reacted. This is why living creatures are so abundant in the element.)

It's clear to us, regardless of the cold nature of Skyrim, this post-Aetherius energy is completely abundant through the snow. Just like the sand holds capacity for energy in the Alik'r. At night, when it is colder, meaning possibly less post-Aetherial presence in the air, the law of diffusion dictates the magicka must rise, becoming what we see as Auroras. But that can't be all. What must cause such a brilliant and violent release upon the heavens?

We've found it now, Taylia. I can't wait to tell the Guild.

The source of the Northern frigid air is the Sea of Ghosts, the cold wind from Atmora. The frozen lands, they call it. Devoid of Time. What if we were to say with assurance this was due to the total absence of magicka? Life cannot exist without Aetherius' touch. This would explain why no life moves that far north, and how conditions can become so icy. 

Thus it is safe to assume that the Aurora is caused by this magicka rising from our relatively southern continent, meeting the void of energy that is the north. The diffusion gradient is so dramatic that any and all magicka is reacted in the process of its travel north, becoming brilliant light and possibly heat and sound. The north appears very much how the Void absorbs from Aetherius, but instead of no reaction, there is a gradual reaction that results in total dissipation. How strange!

The Aurora is essentially a barrier in the sky, which is why it appears as magnificent, stretching bands, rippling north and south. The reason it appears on some nights and not others is due to the temperature of the day, as we've calculated an estimate fresh-hold in order for the event to take place. Additionally, the different colors are due to the Mundane surfaces that that reflect or absorb different the wavelengths, resulting in different frequencies rising during the night. 

I can't believe it. This all makes sense now. But what of this effect that haunts the north? How can it be so... Volatile? But enough of this. I am sure I will have more by the time I finally return.

Until I see you next, my love.

Scholar Cassandril, the Chorrol Mages Guild.
