---
title: "The Foreigners"
reddit: 47qw7d
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2016-02-26T19:50:35Z
---

&gt;#The Foreigners

*Transcribed By Merchant-Captain Halidus of the* ***OHS (Our Honorable Ship) Morning Heart,*** *Circa 4E 199*

If you're reading this book, then you're just like me - you hate the bastards too.

For centuries now our people have been embroiled in the politics and troubles of these 'western strangers', the collective group of species that we refer to as 'Tamrielics'. Ever since we were annexed by that...ignorant, emperor Uriel Septim V (cursed be his name) during his failed attempt of invading the Distant East in the 279th year of the Third Era, our culture has been dissolving. Even after we regained our independence in the 10th of this current era, their ways and habits do not only continue to influence our way of life, but our sacred history as well! What happened to the time our homeland was known by it's original name of Sturkaellis, as deemed by our Dwemeri Beggetters, and not this...Yneslea? What happened to the time when being an Echmer meant having a soul of music and a heart of poetry, not just having the appearance of a bat? Our current lifestyle is worth nothing more than yak dung! Our ancestors would be furious at how...compliant we've become to the rest of the world.

And worst of all, these Tamrielics believe they are in the right for how they have treated us. They believe they have 'uplifted' us from our shallow lifestyle. Hah! We have created technological marvels they can't even begin to understand. The average Echmer child is more intelligent than most Tamrielic adults. They uplifted us? More like we uplifted them. I read this Imperial Geographical Society propaganda and it makes me want to vomit.

I can't believe that the majority of our people, especially the young ones, have come to accept these western strangers...even like them! My father was a great mer; he taught me much and I loved him dearly. He didn't deserve to die from being forced to work for that damn East Empire Company. That is all that these Tamrielics have brought to our people; ruin and death.

When have the Imperials bled for us? The Altmer, the Bosmer, the Dunmer? The Bretons, the Redguards, the Nords? The Argonians? The Khajiit? When have they defended us, after all the times we've helped and defended them? I can name all of the times we've put our necks at guillotine for them! The Numidium Project, which none of our people kept secret. The Battle of Carolina, which publicly embarrassed us. The Oblivion Crisis, which destroyed much of our society. The Red Year, when we ourselves were going hungry. The list goes on and on!

You just keep taking and taking and taking but you never give us anything. We don't want to question ourselves because of you anymore. We don't want to mourn our sons and daughters anymore.

So I say this, to all of the westerners: Get out. We don't want you here, we never have. Go home, this isn't your party anymore. You got it?

Leave. We just all need you to leave.

*Please.*
