---
title: "A Void-Sailor's Primer: First Journey"
reddit: 47z958
author: scourgicus
date: 2016-02-28T00:32:42Z
---

(from the journal of Hlas Sarethi, Mages Guild Warlock, 5E 913)

I will never forget the first time I sailed the Void.

You have to understand:  I was born on Masser; my grand-sire was a Landfall survivor.  I grew up in Ald Sotha Below but he and I visited every Khajiit city during my apprenticeship – something about their theology and the Seventh House - and that meant walking the sands beneath the stars.  You don’t walk under Oblivion and not want to go there.  So when the Guild offered us a trip to Secunda, for research, I lept at the opportunity.

The ships are small, for the most part; most of the space is dedicated to storage or the ego-chamber.  If you’re lucky (and we were) you get a cabin, but most of the sailors slept in the hold, all stuffed together like slaughterfish in a tin.  I was so excited my grand-sire told me to stop grinning or he’d slap me.  He needn’t have said anything – our departure quickly acclimated me to the reality of Void travel.

Have ever ridden a Guar that’s been badly spooked?  They’re uncontrollable – tear off at a terrific speed and nothing you do will slow them down.  If you’re really unlucky you might be thrown from the saddle and dragged.  Imagine that, only exponentially worse.  That’s departure – when the ship’s ego thrusts it in nothingness by virtue of Belief alone.  Over time the ego can suffer from Disbelief, hence the need for an ego-theologian, but when you first leave port?  Amaranth preserve you.

I spent the entire trip emptying my stomach into the waste receptacle and when we got to Secunda I actually kissed the sugar-sand.  The sailors had quite the laugh at my expense but I was so glad to be on solid ground I didn’t care.  While my grand-sire consulted with the Mane, or explored the Silver Wastes, I recovered in the ancient Guildhall - left over from the Remanite ‘nauts - thinking about home.

I was lucky though.  On the way back I “found my gut” and a day out from Masser was able to go on-deck.

I can see it now:  my grand-sire and I staring into the Void.  You’ve never seen Light like that:  nothing between you and the Light of Aetherius.  I could FEEL the magicka in the air, my skin drinking it in like a fine wine.  I felt more alive in that moment than any in my life before.  I still dream about it, sometimes.

When we got back to Masser I said my good-bye’s to my family and joined the first ship outward-bound.  I sailed for a century before returning to the Guild and don’t regret a moment of it.  The things I’ve seen:  void-serpents dancing on the edge of Moonshadow, pirate ships burning from our atronach cannons, a Remanite void-station coming to life after millennia of quiescence.  And stars – stars so close you could almost touch them!

The Guild has been good to me, don’t misunderstand, but someday soon - I’ll be going again.
