---
title: "Stranded in The Void, Part I: Black Eyes"
reddit: 485pk8
author: swedishplayer97
date: 2016-02-28T21:15:13Z
---

It has been two weeks since we lost arcanophonic contact with our base on Tamriel. Since then, we've been drifting aimlessly through the Void. Captain Valdmir has convinced the crew to continue or mission, and even if we never manage to get the information back to Nirn, we have still been on perhaps the greatest adventure in all of history. So anyway, this is Second Lieutenant Erandmus, writing the ship's log on 25th of Midyear, 5E 117.

Our Magnus-class dreadmoth is the largest mothship ever forged by mortal hands, and it should be enough to sustain our travels for several more years, if not decades. However, as Second Lieutenant, it is my duty to make sure everything runs smoothly aboard this ship. The crew has certainly felt the pressure of being stranded in the Void. Our artificially-grown food leaves a bitter taste in the mouth, but it keeps us going. I am, however, concerned with the structural integrity of the hull. Who knows what manner of dark magick could penetrate the hull and infect us? Colonel Arania says there's little to worry about, and any damage will be immediately fixed by her restorators. But I'm still worried; this is the first time any mortal has ventured into the Void while still alive - their magick might not be enough.

Anywho, several hours ago we came into contact with a strange anomaly. Captain Valdmir wisely held his distance, for when Colonel Arania sent a fireball into the anomaly, it whispered away into nothingness before it grew slightly bigger. The scholars have wisely attempted to get a reading with their staves, to no avail. It seems this anomaly is not of magicka, or any other element for that matter. Whatever it is, it's dangerous and should be kept away from. Valdmir named it a "Black Eye", because that's the closest analogy he could think of.

I wonder what other strange things we will encounter on our further travels. This has been Second Lieutenant Erandmus, signing off.
