---
title: "For Whom the Sixth House Tolls"
reddit: 48smv3
author: LiquidHurlant
date: 2016-03-03T16:13:23Z
---

Let no flesh swear before the Orichalcum God the Murder most Foul did not Ring at the Moon and Star's meeting, nor the Hortator's Uprising fulfilled, or the Ancestors reclaimed.

The Ritual of the Innocent Quarry, also called Foul Murder, is an ancient rite channeling Mythic Aurbis from the Havoc Wellhead that engulfs this realm. The creators and times of the rituals are long forgotten. But followed properly, the rite brings great power and prestige to the Victor.


Why bells? To wake the Sleeper who lay billowing in dream. The House forsworn Called for this Prisoner, to close the blood ring road of the Man-Age. So a Son of Boethiah erupted from sovngarde, laying True Flame and Hope's Fire to the necks of gagged Kings and headless Empire.

Nerevar began as a ragtag mercenary, ignoble and forsworn, placated by silver, and restrained by oaths. Deep inside: a call, a view to a kill, and the whispers of a barely formed urge. Power was his for the taking, if he'd but lift an Axe against his Masters. Reasoning wouldn't turn the caravan; and so by violence did the clanless-born grip Beauty Cala, bride of the Mourned Hold.

(Sorry for the rough edges. I know it seems like I skipped a logical step, but I'm only showing the place of the Call of the Wild, and the Arenotelicon Totem in Vehk's Fourth(?) Lesson to his Lord Nerevar. Basically, the Beastial incal by which a fool is born a Victor above victors. By which Dream-dawn Destiny is Made.)
