---
title: "The Most Powerful Lord of Oblivion"
reddit: 499nvk
author: swedishplayer97
date: 2016-03-06T23:06:40Z
---

There has long been debates regarding the strongest and most powerful Daedric Prince of Oblivion for eons. Many factors and skills have been taken into consideration, but nothing short of an actual gladiatorial tournament between the Princes can ever determine who is the strongest. But, the answer has been in front of us forever, and we never realized it thankts to the simplicity of it;

Peryite.

The Lord of Disease, yes. Some might object, claiming Molag Bal or Mehrunes Dagon could squash him like an insect without lifting a finger. And yes, they could, but they won't, for the simple reason that all of Oblivion would descend into chaos should they do so.

Because Peryite, while he is the King of Plagues on Mundus, is also known as the Taskmaster of Oblivion; his sphere includes pestilience and order. Commonly associated with Jyggalag until his un/fortunate turning into Sheogorath. Because you see, without Peryite, everything the other Princes do not control would descend into chaos: The sleeves between planes, where the Uncontrolled roam free, would seep into the others' planes should Peryite not be there to stop them. Mehrunes Dagon would become overtaken by stasis; Molag Bal would be infected with the disease of freedom. Nocturnal's realm would become as bright as day, and Vaermina would loose her connection with mortal minds.

It are these Uncontrollable ones that truly represent the chaos of Oblivion; the fear every mortal shares: Demons of the immortal plane, roaming free, with no-one there to stop them. So as to prevent their own subjugation and destruction of their plaything (that is Mundus), the Daedra hold a begrudging respect for Peryite the Taskmaster, and ever hold fast the belief that the rest of Oblivion remains under his watch, less they be destroyed.
