---
title: "States of Daggerfall"
reddit: 499upn
author: Bee-and-Barb
date: 2016-03-06T23:53:35Z
---

Hi everyone, it's me again; the guy who's working on that TES AU. Sorry for not having posted in a long while, I've been busy with school and I've lacked motivation to write. Thankfully I've gotten out of my writer's block and I've both created a map and typed up some very brief descriptions of the states of the Kingdom of Daggerfall, and as of now I'm working on the other kingdoms. 

http://i.imgur.com/xLxqvDy.png?1

The map key is that the thick lines are major highways, the thinner lines are lesser (but still well-traveled) roads, and the dotted lines are major shipping routes. 

State Descriptions:

**Daggerfall**: The political capital of not only the Kingdom of Daggerfall, but also the political capital of the whole of High Rock. Leading in fashion and entertainment, Daggerfall is famed for its warm climate, superb beaches, sun-bleached architecture, and desirable suburbs. The people of Daggerfall are famed by most for their air of sophistication, while if you ask others, they’re characterized by pretentiousness.  In both Daggerfall proper and its outlying suburbs, there is no dearth of stores to peruse, cinema to watch, and fine tree-lined streets to stroll. 

**Tulune**: Essentially a suburb-state of Daggerfall, Tulune at the most is characterless, with many considering it simply leeching off of Daggerfall. Historically, Tulune has had very cordial relations with Daggerfall and accepted its absorption into the kingdom with ease. 

**Shalgora**: Situated exactly at the tip of the Glenumbra Peninsula, the state of Shalgora is far less populated than neighboring Daggerfall and Glenumbra Moors. Most of Shalgora is rural farmland and vineyards, with small villages dotted here and there. As such, Shalgora is populated by a mix of native Shalgoran farmers and elderly Daggerfellians looking to escape the chaos of the city. The people of Shalgora pride themselves as hard-working and modest, shunning the hustle and bustle and flashy character of urban Daggerfall. 

**Anticlere**: Known as the gastronomic capital of the Kingdom of Daggerfall, Anticlere is renowned for its pristine olive oil and fine cuisine rich in seafood. Food critics from all over High Rock and even throughout the Empire sing the praises of Anticlere’s fare. Renowned as a soulful sea-faring people, Anticlerites find their niche as fishermen and sailors. 

**Ilessan Hills**: Ilessan Hills is situated at a higher elevation smack in the middle of the Glenumbra Peninsula, where the climate is considerably less warm. Owing to their relatively isolated location, the people of Ilessan Hills are infamous as xenophobic and at times even downright hostile to outsiders. In the early days of Imperial colonization in the early Third Era, many Imperial settlements were founded and garrisoned in the Ilessan Hills, much to the chagrin of the natives. 

**Glenumbra Moors**: As Glenumbra Moors is located on the western coast of the Glenumbra Peninsula, it has a much milder climate than the Illiac Coast, and the landscape mainly consists of gentle, rolling hills and lush, green meadows. The people of Glenumbra Moors are known as laid-back and aloof. The people are also famed for their accent in that they speak *slooooooooowly*. 
A long-standing joke poking fun at the Glenumbra accent goes: 

An Imperial soldier was walking along when he found an Umbraman weeping loudly by the side of the road.

"Come here man" said the soldier, "what's the matter now?"

"It's my father", said the man. "Twenty years ago his heart gave out as he was plowing the fields. My mom told my brother, my brother told my cousin, and then my cousin told me."

"That is a bad bit of news. But surely twenty years is more than enough time to have finished grieving?"

"You don't understand. I just got the news this morning."


**Glenpoint**: As citizens of the second-smallest State by size in the Kingdom of Daggerfall, the people of Glenpoint seem to suffer from a collective inferiority complex; the people of Glenpoint did not take their absorption into wider Daggerfall lightly, and see themselves as victims of oppression under their rulers. While ethnic and political tensions have mainly subsided, many still hold grudges. 

**Betony**: The island of Betony has changed hands back and forth between High Rock and Hammerfell countless times throughout the course of history; when the threat of invasion from Hammerfell loomed, the various Breton kingdoms bound together in a rare act of cooperation and shared goals. Now, with the stabilization of the Empire and improved relations with Hammerfell, Betony is now securely in the hands of High Rock. In terms of culture and people, Betony is a fairly unremarkable island populated by humble fishermen and small-time merchants. 

Please, tell me what you think and if I should change anything!

