---
title: "16 Accords of Madness: Volume VI - Mehrunes Dagon"
reddit: 49bv87
author: swedishplayer97
date: 2016-03-07T09:18:46Z
---

It was a quiet summer evening on the 11th of Sun's Height. Sheogorath was basking in the warm sun atop the White-Gold Tower, taking in the beutiful scenery he could witness stretching miles across in every direction. Why, he felt practically jovial today - a perfect opportunity to spend some quality time with one of his fellow cousins. How long had it been since he visisted the Deadlands, say? Sheogorath stood up, dusted off his suit and opened a portal to the realm of Mehrunes Dagon.

In under a second, Mehrunes, who had just been occupied burning a disbeliever alive, sitting atop his massive throne of bones, went from ecstatic to annoyed at the presence of the Mad God in his chambers. "What are you doing here?" the Prince of Destruction bawled.
"Why, can't one fellow Daedric Prince visit another Daedric Prince in his realm of Oblivion like any other day?" Dagon flicked away the tormented mortal with his finger and leaned forward, staring the intruder right in his grey eyes. "Or would you rather I invite Molag Bal as well?"
Leaning back again, Dagon put his four arms on his legs, sighed so the ceiling shook, and asked, "What do you want?" realizing the Mad God would not remove himself if he would not get to speak his zany scheme.

Raising one finger and pacing back and forth, Sheogorath spoke his mind. "I am feeling rather under the weather, and what would turn my day into a golden one would be an old-fashioned game of wits - don't you agree?" The Prince of Change remained silent, waiting for Sheogorath to continue his tirade. "Well, I figured we could test who of us was the most influential Daedric Prince on the mortal world. If I'd say so myself, I'd figure that I was more powerful on Mundus than you - unless you want to test that mettle?"

Dagon stared at him for a moment before bursting into laughter, saying "Do you really think you stand a chance against the Prince of Destruction, Mad God? I will crush you without batting an eye. I accept your challenge."
"Splendid!" Sheogorath replied simply.

Several moments later, Sheogorath and Mehrunes Dagon found themselves on a peak in the Wrothgarian Mountains, their senses being keen enough to see all the way down to Hammerfell. A small, tyrannical monarchy stood in front of them. "Witness this," Sheogorath said, indicating to the kingdom, "This nation is in dire need of a revolution. You would have to inspire the people to overthrow their despotic regime, while I would have them remain apathetic. Does this challenge suffice?" Dagon laughed yet again, "I am the Lord of Change and Revolution. This is right up my alley. You stand no chance."

So without delay, Mehrunes Dagon manifested himself in the minds of the resistance. He inspired anarchists and dissidents, and planted seeds of revolution in the hearts of the people. Soon, an uprising commenced, and the tyrannical regime weakened daily before the final push was to begin. That's when Sheogorath decided to make his move; he manifested himself as a close friend of the revolution's leader, approached him, patted him on his shoulder and spoke: "You are destinied for greatness. Let not your thought of freedom suppress your true goals." And then he disappeared. The leader sat down and questioned his motives, not of what he was doing - that was clear - but of how he was to proceed with it. It became clear to him, and he launched his uprising.

Several days later, Sheogorath and Mehrunes Dagon stood at the peak again, now witnessing the birth of a new kingdom. "Behold, Sheogorath, for I have succeeded. The tyrannical monarchy has been deposed, now replaced with a revolutionary government." Sheogorath lifted his finger, and simply said, "Look again, old Dagon. What you have wrought is indeed revolution, but revolution to what, exactly? The new monarchy has declared the revolution's leader its king, and if I'm not mistaken, they are executing traitors. Conspirators, people suspected of being loyalists. Why, if I were a citizen, I'd be just as terrified as ever. Ask yourself this, Dagon; if you were a citizen of this new regime you have helped create - would it feel like anything has changed?"

And with that, Sheogorath declared his victory, stepped through a portal to the Shivering Isles, and left Mehrunes Dagon - shocked, that he had let a Mad God twist his own sphere against him.

---
Just a story I thought would be interesting. For those wondering, what is described is a Full-Circle Revolution; where the new revolutionary government becomes just as tyrannical as the one it deposed, essentially meaning nothing ever changed.
