---
title: "The Breaking of Je'm'ath"
reddit: 49ctg1
author: scourgicus
date: 2016-03-07T14:24:16Z
---

Clavius climbed the final step and was rewarded with a breathtaking view of the city; not least because of its beauty.  “Not an easy path up these stairs,” he struggled for breath.  “What are there – seven-thousand of them?”

Saaj’ri laughed, moving to the edge of the cliff.  “Not nearly, but the sight is well-worth the effort, no?”

Clavius joined him, taking in the scene.  “I have to admit – I’ve rarely seen a city so beautiful as Rimmen.”  Magnus had reached its zenith, His light reflected in the many canals and streams.  Something caught the Imperial’s eyes.  “What’s that?  To the south – there’s a dark patch.”

Saaj’ri spat on the ground, a snarling sound coming from his throat.  “That was the House of Ban’dargo the Cursed; Merrunz take his soul.”

The Imperial did not hide his surprise.  “Not the response I expected from a priest,” he said.  “You knew him?”

“No, he lived in the Third Era but all know the tale:  the breaker of Je’m’ath.”

“Je’m’ath?”

“A ceremony of the Khajiit, passed down from the Mothers; very ancient, very holy.  In Je’m’ath two people share food and sugar; they are united under the Moons and are of each another’s pride, until they agree not to be.”  

“I had no idea ritual was so important to the Khajiit.” 

“Oh, yes, tail-less scholar.”  The Khajiit explained, “It came from a time when the clans warred throughout the deserts and some way was needed to make peace.  Some say Je’m’ath was given to the Mothers by Azurah, others that it was something they created.  Whatever the source it is now sacrosanct:  once you have partaken together you may not draw blades until you decide, together, that you are no longer of the same pride.”

“And this Ban’dargo broke Je’m’ath?”

“Yes.  He was a politician of some renown and a cousin of the Mane.  There was some conflict with another House – someone lay with another’s wife or stole something of value – and it seemed likely to come to violence.  Instead, Ban’dargo summoned his opponents to Je’m’ath and a great feast at his estate.  It was to last many days, but the first night he slit their throats while they slept.

“The people called for justice but the Mane did nothing.  So the Mothers gathered a host of Thoghatts and exacted punishment for his blasphemy.”

“Thoghatts?”

“A difficult word to translate; both ‘mercenary’ and ‘knight’ in your speech.  ‘One who is sworn’, to a cause, person, or House.  In this case, sworn to punish Ban’dargo.”

“But don’t Khajiit steal and kill all the time?  I mean no offense; the tradition of skillful acquisition as Zenithar’s good work is known in Cyrodiil as well.”

“Ah, tail-less friend, you misunderstand.  Yes, Khajiit steal but is it theft if you care so little to protect something?  If you truly love your spouse, will you not love them so they do not seek affection elsewhere?  If you value your treasure will you not truly protect it?  When something is not defended with passion, Khajiit knows it is no longer desired and free to be taken.”

“An interesting perspective.”

“Had Ban’dargo sent his Thoghatts to kill the other House in open conflict, or even by assassination, it would have been seen as him simply following Riddle’thar:  all take their own path to ja-Kha’jay, even if the path is violent.  But by taking Je’m’ath with his adversary, and breaking it, he committed a vile heresy.  He and his were killed and the estate burned.  The ruins remain as a testimony.”

Clavius shook his head in wonder.  “The more I learn of your people, Saaj’ri, the more I realize I know nothing.”

“It is not your fault, friend,” the Khajiit patted him on the arm as they made their way back down.  “Tail-less scholars always struggle so; it is a great sadness.”

*

Note:  Je'm'ath appears in the Greg Keyes novel "The Infernal City"
