---
title: "States of Camlorn"
reddit: 49fg88
author: Bee-and-Barb
date: 2016-03-07T23:26:57Z
---

It's me, that guy who made the "States of Daggerfall" thread. I quickly wrote up some descriptions of the states of Camlorn and sketched a sloppy map of Camlorn itself.

http://i.imgur.com/b5VQjpK.png?1

Please tell me what you think!


**Camlorn**: The political capital of the Kingdom of Camlorn, Camlorn State’s geography is low-lying and prone to flooding, with many areas of settlement built on reclaimed swampland. The climate of Camlorn is mild and rainy, with most of the State seemingly covered in a permanent fog. Harking back from the early days of High Rock, ruins of grand castles and fortifications masoned from stone dot the landscape, half-sunken into the bog. The people of Camlorn pride themselves as studious and shrewd, and indeed, Camlorn City is hailed as “the Arcane Capital of High Rock”, as home of the famed Camlorn University.

**Northmoor**: Located to the south of Camlorn, Northmoor is known colloquially as  “Heather Country”, for its landscape is mostly moorland blanketed with heather plants. The people of Northmoor refer to themselves as “Heatherfolk” and mostly eke out livings as herders and fishermen. 

**Daenia**: Despite being under the control of Camlorn, Daenia has much more cordial relations with Daggerfall. However, the people of Daenia attempt their best at keeping relations warm with Camlorn and functionally owe no real allegiance. The landscape of Daenia is mostly low plains with sparse woodland, with dense forests found in the southwest. The people of Daenia are perhaps infamous for their perceived untrustworthiness due to their political flip-flopping. 

**Ykalon**: Once one of the poorest kingdoms in all of High Rock, the state of Ykalon is a true example “rags-to-riches”. With the advent of electricity, the Ykaloni were first to cash in by exporting hydroelectric power harvested from their numerous lakes to other states. Often stereotyped as newly-rich country bumpkins, the people of Ykalon are often ridiculed for their infamously silly accent. Ykalon’s landscape is Taiga forest with hundreds of small lakes to be found all over. The state is also notable in that it is the home of the headquarters of the Blades in High Rock.

**Dwynnen**: Perhaps the best way to describe the people of Dwynnen and Dwynnen in general would be ‘rustic’; the people of Dwynnen choose to reject all modern amenities such as electricity and functional healthcare in order to live more like their forefathers. For the most part, the people of Dwynnen keep to themselves and are cautious of outsiders, but not outright xenophobic like those of Ilessan Hills. The landscape of Dwynnen is similar to that of Ykalon, sans the many lakes. 

**Urvaius**: Boring, boring, *boring*; that would probably be the best way to describe Urvaius. Once a hustling state, Urvaius is a shadow of its former self, with most employment having been gone and left for decades, and the capital city of Le Creusot can at the very best be described as ‘quaint’. The people of Urvaius are perhaps equally as dull, and are known for being cold and calculating. The geography is the same as Daenia except for some Ykaloni Taiga in the west. 
