---
title: "A Cult of Worms"
reddit: 49ksq5
author: TuMadreEsMiCorazon
date: 2016-03-08T21:54:49Z
---

##A Cult of Worms##

Galerion the Mystic: founder of the mages guild. Ha! A fool leading the blind. Genius among buffoons. What do you know of Galerion? Do you believe those books you’ve read are unbiased- written thousands of years later by his own guild?

Do they speak of Galerion’s crippling superiority complex? I would imagine they don’t. Extreme even by Altmer standards, it pervaded his every waking thought. He was obsessed with being a savior, a hero. This is why he insisted on teaching magic to the inept; insisted on setting laughably low requirements to join his guild. The more people that called him master, the higher Galerion could build his imaginary throne. The more he could fuel his own hysteria. This was the impetus of your company. The noble cause behind your great organization. A delirious Altmer seeking the validation from novices he never earned from his peers.

In contrast, Mannimarco sought no pupils, but still pupils came to him. Mannimarco sought not to meddle in the affairs of the common folk, waiting instead for the separation of soul and body. Know this- any fool capable of casting soul trap can tell you the body is but a vessel for the incorporeal consciousness. Trifling with a corpse once the soul leaves does no harm.

But Mannimarco’s acclaim did not go unnoticed by Galerion. He saw the growing influence of his rival, saw how effortlessly students would flock to his side. “But no one can be of equal caliber to Galerion- oh no!” So what did Galerion do? He insisted that necromancy be deemed evil. That a lifeless corpse be sacred. That his followers scorn and vilify Mannimarco’s pupils; and demonize the mer himself.

You can see the posturing right there in the name: The Guild of Mages. Ha! What a grandiose, pompous name indeed! “No magic exists beyond this organization!” it cries so desperately. And what did Mannimarco call himself-  the King of Worms. Claiming knowledge over nothing, dominion over nothing; save perhaps dirt.

*The next portion of the book is too burnt to be made out. All that can be salvaged is the following:*

A god- a true, unfettered god! You can see him up there, amongst the others.  Look - just off of Arkay! Do you not understand what this means? Can you not comprehend the implications? A true ascendant, like Talos himself! 

*This is the final portion of the book which remains intact.*

But he is both god and mortal! Both ascended and living still! A consequence of the dragon’s bitter frailty; his soul exists simultaneously beyond and within Mundus. 

Mannimarco is more than a necromancer’s god, he is too THE necromancer. Do you see the difference- the paradox this creates? The highest ideal is not to become a powerful worm acolyte, but to become THE powerful worm acolyte. To become Mannimarco, to become an avatar of the Necromancer’s Moon!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a bunch of dialogue from a mod I storyboarded but never made for Morrowind. Roughly compiled into book format because I thought it would make a nice addition to this weeks theme.

