---
title: "My notes on the being of the aurbis and animus"
reddit: 49v4ct
author: OtakuOfMe
date: 2016-03-10T19:49:45Z
---

&gt;A fix 'answer' to some stuff of /u/MareloRyan or more a short version of my headcanon hypothesis.

Many guys here think of space and time as the fundamental stones of the Aurbis, same guys or others uses Tones and Colours in their construction set. I personally differ from that a bit.

What was the dream before the Aurbis? Literal nothing, no IS and no IS NOT. After impregnating the void with memories it becaming... not full, but *capable*. Flooded with 'Creatia'. That is it what 'scientists' of Nirn would call it, you can totally exchange it with 'Possibility'. Magicka is the most prominent form of it, a stream in movement, easier to access as in stasis.

Imagine the aurbis as a big ocean with streams and calm spots between. The whole void is filled with the ocean, with their 'waters' of creatia. Some of that 'concentrated' to *animi* (correct plural?). Points of individual influence, tagging stasis and change together, imagos of the greater ocean. They take part of the memory that floods through the mass, gathering their own dots of it, impregnating themselves and became self-aware. Memory is the possibility to 'save' happened ways and thoughts like on a drive. These memories build a personality, something to relay on: a consciousness is born. This AE is now part of the new created animus. I AM AND YOU ARE NOT. 

The social part of how they became aware of others is another history and not part of this thought. Important is that they fill their spaces and made them to planes. And I agree with MareloRyan that Mundus is just a place like Oblivion or Aetherius. They all share the same void, the same waters, just uses them different. I don't even believe that there can be 'chaotic creatia' and therefore just a narrow minded term. For me, Mundus were Lorkhans place before, he 'sacrificed' willingly his own plane for the operation.

Boundaries are so artificial made because of the thinking, of the being of the animi. It seems that the only thing that limitate the powers are theirselves. Maybe the possiblity is really limitated and there is a blanc void outside? Maybe there are things which overcome the capacities of the godhead? 

Time and Space are in this theory just other artificial construct that are needed, maybe inherent in the structure of the dream. Tone and Colour are other constructs that are deflected from that and not possible without these. They are anyhow like refined versions/manifestations. Magnus was the primus to use them. His knowledge seemed to be the only one to actually provide the architecture of Nirn. But it was just a imitation. 

It had to be a failure. Instead of creating a world depending on them, they wanted a world on their own, a second dream. But this is impossible, at least in this aurbis. They cut off limbs to make Nirn depend on them. The consequences were fatale.

Now, Nirn is part of the Aurbis like anything else. Flooding in the waters (the oceans) and connected to the void (sky). What makes it special is its rules of limitations. Intention or lucky coincidence? Maybe just the rules of the possibility. The et'ada with the next-best information on the tools of Nirn are Meridia (daylight), Azurah (dawn) and Nocturnal (night), but they can't talk about that or won't.

And yes, this is just a nerdy piece without much thinking about it. Judge me if you are pleased. ;)
