---
title: "Final Years of Ayleid Rule Vol. 6: Filestis"
reddit: 4c1lj0
author: Commander-Gro-Badul
date: 2016-03-26T15:37:20Z
---

[[Volume 2](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/4c1gbo/final_years_of_ayleid_rule_vol_2_anumaril/)]

*By Angloriacar the Forgotten*

In the western Heartland lay once Kwyrothil. It was a city of many faiths and it's ruler was Filestis. Filestis worshiped Molag Bal, but he allowed his subjects to worship any Gods they pleased. Filestis was an unusual king, very unlike his father Haaneldan, who opressed his people and forced upon them their faith. Kwyrothil was allied with Anumaril's Abagarlas, a remnant from the rule of his father. But Filestis held Anumaril very close, and they both trusted eachother. Kwyrothil was at peace, and Filestis did all that he could to maintain that peace. But the stasis that Kwyrothil was in would suddenly change when Anumaril of Abagarlas stood at Filestis' doorstep. Anumaril gave to Filestis a great, red crystal. In which Anumaril had infused all of his love. Anumaril commanded Filestis to take the crystal to the cold sunset limit of Tam-Rielle, near Altbal's northwestern peak. Anumaril then vanished without a trace. Flestis took many of his followers and Anumaril's crystal and traveled to the city of Beldaburo. From there they took a ship headed north.

After many cycles of the moons Filestis reached the cold sunset limit. He had the hall of Veawend Ede be built on the very site that they had landed on, the name meaning "End of the Sea Journey". Filestis also had the city of Erokii be built, as a new home for the Elves of Kwyrothil. The land was rocky and lifeless, but wherever Filestis brought Anumaril's crystal the ground came to life. Therefore Filestis let build a shrine to the crystal, which he decided to call Autaracu Alata, or "the Remnant of Light", at the top of the tallest mountain of the area. When the the Remnant was placed on top of the mountain the entire region of modern-day Rivenspire started blooming. Filestis' people started worshiping him as a Demiprince for this feat. But not soon after Filestis became ill and death was claiming him when his followers brought him to the Remnant of Light, which he had insisted on seeing one last time. As Erokii's people cried upon his lifeless body the Remnant burst with magicka. Filestis suddenly awoke, more alive than ever. This was celebrated in Erokii for many days and nights. Filestis lived on for many more years, before he died at the unnatural age of 789 years.
