---
title: "Betrayal: New Transmission I"
reddit: 4c4p1s
author: ClarentaviousValisi
date: 2016-03-27T06:23:54Z
---

http://forums.bethsoft.com/topic/1598426-betrayal

Infrasleeve L3-20: Channel granted.

"Dk07-19bN00"
ZERO-SUM VENTURE... RETURN FALSE... VERIFICATION 1
"d000-34bN00"
FEX-FEINT ENABLED... RETURN TRUE... VERIFICATION 8
"d000-000000"
WATER-WORD WARD... RETURN TRUE... VERIFICATION 0
"0000-000000"
ACCESS GRANTED RELEASING MEMOSPORE

**Side Bar: The Imperials of Nucyrod**

*"As I lay here, dreaming of dreams, I hear the song of the heart and the sobs of the land. What am I, but a vessel of divine perchance? Our we, as mortals, not bringers of the eternal dusk? There is an ending to all things, anon none, and the mongrels of Cyrodiil are trapped in their own. When I sleep, I awake in another world. And when I awake, I kill it dead."* - Mumbled Sermons of the Shunned Father

The Celediilons (more commonly referred to as Cuhls) of the eponymous Celediilon Union are a noble people who have faced much hardship and social stigma in the past. Although their land is located within Colovia, they identify as neither Colovian or Nibenese; in their eyes, they are the true sons and daughters of Alessia and Reman, and view all other so-called Imperials as cursed mongrels who will be damned upon the 'Sapphire's Revival'. Their society is a theocratic monarchy of Knight Houses and Priesthoods that worship the gods Ebonarm, Sai, Jephre, Magnus, Kyne, Mara, Morihaus, and Akatosh. Children who survive being blessed with the flesh of the Slumbering King are put through rigorous training in order to become the Knight-Templars and Paladin-Generals of the nation's grand army; those who are rejected are exiled into the lower caste, where they become farmers, artisans, and servants for the nobility. The average Cuhl is tall, lean, and possesses either crimson or brown hair; those exceptional few who are descended from Taurian unions possess small horns and a more burly build. Since the Celediilon woodlands are inhabited by a great deal of dangerous creatures (such as the dire wolf and the river salamander) that terrorize their lands, Cuhls are expert hunters and trackers. All babes of the Union are formally sworn to the service of the Medes and their Underking by way of the Gem, so their souls may upon death be used to fuel the vision of the Shunned King that allow his kingdom to exist. The current Heir of Nucyrod, Underking-now-Emperor Titus Mede, eldest mirror-son of the Sifr, currently rules over the land with a warm heart and a cold hand, and with the aid of the Royal Penitus Guard, intends on claiming his birthright with divine prejudice.

[TRANSLATION ENDS.]
