---
title: "Redguards &amp; Realistic Social Attitudes Towards Magic"
reddit: 4e4665
author: BayonetHipshot
date: 2016-04-10T02:18:24Z
---

I am quite frankly surprised at how magic is viewed in Tamriel. For me, for the most part, its not very realistic. Here are my reasons based on magical schools, magical craft and how the general population might view them:-

**1) Alchemy -** I don't think the general populace will be opposed to alchemy. It is a very useful and very beneficial craft. In a realistic environment, there will be regulations limiting people on how many plants they can pick and how many animals they can kill for their body parts in order to avoid extinction. Additionally, in a realistic environment, there will be regulations that limits the types and amounts of poisons someone can carry in public. Otherwise, I don't see much getting in the way of alchemy.

**2) Alteration -** I do not think the general populace will have any big issues with alteration because it primarily concerns defense, mass alteration, water breathing and water walking. The exceptions here are lockpicking and transmutation spells because there will be concerns regarding privacy, theft and the devaluation of gold and silver if one transmutes far too much. Which means that realistically, there will be regulations on alteration spells associated with lockpicking and transmutation but other spells are okay as long as you do not use them to willfully initiate harm someone else. 

**3) Conjuration -** This is a magical school that I think, will face a lot of opposition and demand of regulation from the general populace. Firstly, Tamriel has been attacked multiple times by Oblivion forces and Conjuration is about summoning beings from Oblivion. Secondly, Conjuration is also about the necromancy and undead, two things that the general populace are highly against.Thirdly, one can make the argument that summoning is a form of slavery which can be seen as detestable by some portion of the populace. In a realistic environment, Conjuration would be a very tightly regulated school whereby people are only really allowed to use Conjuration to banish Daedra as well as defend themselves by summoning Daedric weapons and armor. Perhaps a more liberal society would allow some form of necromancy and Daedric summoning for academic purposes.

**4) Destruction -** The general populace will demand that this school of magic be regulated in specific ways. For one, destruction will be regulated so that it can only be used in self defense. Secondly, if destruction magic causes any property damage and damage to someone, the caster in question must pay fines or face imprisonment.

**5) Enchanting -** In my opinion, enchanting would be regulated in such a way that there will be a ban on using people and black soul gems. Additionally, there would be regulations on wildlife hunting for the purposes of filling soul gems so as to avoid any wildlife species going extinct. Perhaps a more pragmatic society would allow black souls to be used in the context that it is used as a form of death sentence or as a form of self defense (soul-trapping an enemy). 

**6) Illusion -** Like conjuration, the general populace would realistically want to tightly regulate illusion. Firstly, mind affecting spells would either be banned or only allowed to be used as a form of self defense or only be allowed in a strictly academic/research setting. As for light and sound affecting spells, there would not be much opposition to it.

**7) Restoration -** This school of magic would be most accepted by the general populace, followed by alteration. Realistically, the general populace would love restorations for all the benefits it has to offer and would not really put up any restrictions against it. 

**8) Magical Education -** There would be many regulations and sanctions that are imposed on magical education. For example, the government of any realistic society would most probably favor something like the Mages Guild instead of a free for all clusterfuck. 

Looking at all this, I am starting to think if the Redguards are on to something with their cultural and social attitudes towards magic. I mean, their culture is suspicious of magic but they tolerate and accept restoration, alteration, destruction, alchemy and enchanting but they shun conjuration and illusion. Sure, the Redguards do go too far sometimes but in a realistic setting, this is what the general populace of any society would do towards magic. 

Thoughts &amp; Comments ?
