---
title: "Star Shrines of Akos Kasaz"
reddit: 4e56rh
author: Commander-Gro-Badul
date: 2016-04-10T09:00:37Z
---

*By Jhatloreh af-Balena, scholar the No'Raqqi Sisterhood of Ra-Yoku'Iquizzi*

In the Dawn Era the Yokudans held the stars sacred above all else. They held both Thief, Mage and Serpent sacred, but the Warrior was considred holier than all others combined. He consisted of many stars, each made by and connected to what the Lefthanded Elves called a Magna-Get. The devout Yokudans of Akos Kasaz considered it heretical not to build great shrines to all the gods that they worshiped. Under Grand Star-Emperor Sakat'Ra they began the construction of thirty shrines, each dedicated to one star that made up the constellation of the Warrior. First they built shrines to the Warrior's Grand Stars, then the Great, then the Lesser. And the Yokudans were very proud of their accomplishments. They should also have been, for the shrines took many years to build and their constuction clamed the lives of many faithful Yokudans.

_______

The greatest of these shrines was the one of Na-Ratiq'Zi, the right heel of the Warrior. This shrine was the one most sacred to the servants of Akos Kasaz, for they were the heel that kept the Warrior standing.

Second greatest was Netu'Aba, the nethers of the Warrior. This shrine was the most sacred to the prostitutes of Akos Kasaz, for they were what kept the Warrior joy and content, through being abused and exploited by him.

Third greatest was No-Netu, the right hand of the Warrior. This shrine was the most sacred to the teachers of Akos Kasaz, for they were who taught the Warrior how to swing a blade.

Fourth greatest was No-Netu Hu, the left hand of the Warrior. This shrine was the most sacred to wives and husbands, for it was their love who made the Warrior hold a firm grip of his blade.

Fifth greatest was Sei-Bdham, the axe head of the Warrior. This shrine was the most sacred to the soldiers of Akos Kasaz, for they were the ones who cut down the enemies of the Warrior.

Sixth greatest was Ra'Bhakozun, the shoulder of the Warrior. This shrine was the most sacred to the armourers of Akos Kasaz, for they were the ones who protected the Warrior from unforeseen strikes.

Seventh greatest was Flath'Ziiki, the helve of the Warrior. This shrine was the most sacre to the woodworkers of Akos Kasaz, for they were the ones who frovided the warrior with all his wooden weapons.

_______________

 Note that the lesser Star-Shrines were not individually sacred, but were rather worshiped in small groups.

_______________

The eight greatest were Had'Natith, Ghaza-Na, Fhar-Ra'Ta, Selim'Nu and Jkarzan'To, the right arm of the Warrior. These shrines were the most sacred to the sword-trainers of Akos Kasaz, for they were the ones who kept the Warrior's sword-arm strong and powerful.

The ninth greatest were Salaam Ko, Bala-Latha and Na-Malaam, the head of the Warrior. These shrines were the most sacred to the scholars of Akos Kasaz, as they were the thinkers of the Warrior.

The tenth greatest were Daghi-Va, Manseni Tok, Gharna'La and Vosha Whak, the shield of the Warrior. These shrines were the most sacred to the spies and agents of Akos Kasaz, for they were the ones who shielded the Warrior from all harm.

The eleventh greatest were Balsam'Ko, Nasak'Jha, Ra Falsoom and Roku-Ri, the blade of the Warrior. These shrines were the most sacred to the assassins of Akos Kasaz, for they were the ones who silently dispatched the enemies of the Warrior.

The twelfth greatest were Roku-Manselim, Ghok'No, Ansoom Ti, Bashom'Fla and Yakka Fosum, the legs of the Warrior. These shrines were the most sacred to the merchants and nobles of Akos Kasaz, for their gold was what kept the Warrior standing.

The least great shrines were Raqqi Losum and Foqzi Go, the left foot of the Warrior. These shrines were the most sacred to the beggars of Akos Kasaz, for they were the ones who were crushed under the Warrior's cruel foot.

__________________

 The "greatness" of the shrines of Akos Kasaz was not decided after who the shrines were sacred to, but rather the size the stars had on the night sky. Some ancient Ra Gada scripts would suggest that the Warrior was the one who led the Yokudans of Akos Kasaz from lost Yokuda to Tamriel, but other sources contradict this claim.
