---
title: "The Julianist Conclave: Dominion of the Blackcasters"
reddit: 4f819n
author: LegateZanUjcic
date: 2016-04-17T19:22:24Z
---

The Redguards have never been fond of nudri-hi or eastern magic. Always more prone to the magic of wind and sand or the sword-singing arts, the Redguards mainly distrust eastern magic due to its rather strong association with the elven races and its tampering with souls and minds. The ancient Yokudans first clashed with the elves in their lost homeland of Yokuda, then again when they colonized the disputed wastes that would one day become Hammerfell. Since then, they’ve faced two full-scale invasions of Hammerfell by the elven races. Furthermore, the Redguards face a constant struggle against necromancers, both Tamrielic and Thrassian, seeking the “bounty” of Hammerfell for their macabre rituals. Mannimarco, the King of Worms even made his base in the mountains of northern Hammerfell. 

However, nudri-hi enclaves have arisen in Hammerfell over the course of history. The Mages Guild maintained a number of guild halls all across the province, providing knowledge and training to those seeking it. More infamous was the Blackcaster Mages Guild, a rogue guild of exiled mages that became the guardians of the city of Elinhir during the Interregnum, only to nearly destroy the city after being corrupted by the Serpent. To this day, Redguards use the name “Blackcaster” to curse the practitioners of eastern magic. After the Mages Guild was dissolved in the Early Fourth Era, the Blackcaster Mages Guild of old was refounded in all but name as the Julianist Conclave, an association of mages devoted to the research and understanding of the ancient magics of the Nedes and Yokudans. 

Taking up residence in the Apex Tower, the Redguards cannot help but sneer at this new incarnation of the accursed guild. Despite their distrust of the Conclave, most Redguards agree that the Conclave has brought economic prosperity and security to Elinhir not seen since the days of the Blackcaster Mages Guild. However, this also fuels the fires of resentment in Elinhir's neighbors, such as the Forebears of Taneth or the Dragontail Clans of the Bend'r-Mahk, not to mention the Colovian outlaw mercenaries of the Strident League. Without the Conclave's protection, Elinhir could be targeted by any of these groups, fostering a relationship of unease between the Julianist Conclave and the Crown aristocracy of the City of Mages.

