---
title: "Where Gods Dwell"
reddit: 4g46yw
author: Alarialas
date: 2016-04-23T16:40:02Z
---

#Where Gods Dwell    
*Or*    
*A Refutation of the Aetherial Afterlife*    

*by Aurelius Aelius, Chief Scholar of the Imperial College of Transliminal and Extramundal Studies*    
*3E428*      

*^Dedicated ^to ^his ^Imperial ^Majesty, ^Uriel ^Septim ^VII, ^Blessed ^of ^Heaven, ^Emperor, ^and ^Father ^and ^Son ^of ^Emperors*     

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you were to ask the average Imperial citizen where the Gods dwell, you’d likely get a quizzical look, followed by the same answer each time: Aetherius. Priest and layman, man and elf alike believe in an afterlife in Aetherius. This is a falsehood, albeit an incredibly pervasive one, stemming from a fundamental misinterpretation of various creation myths coupled with a lack of widespread celestial education. The Gods dwell bodily and spiritually in the Mundus, the realm of mortals, which they carved out of the Aether and anchored in blood.    

The Daedric Princes, Prime Antitheses of the Divines, dwell in Oblivion, so provincial rustics conclude that the Divines must dwell in the counter-realm of Aetherius. Toted as a realm of pure magic and light, Aetherius is indeed the ancestral home of the Divines, but they forsook it when Shezzar opened their eyes to its static nature, and showed them something more.    

Scholars, mages and Elves tend to revere Magnus, both the Divine and the sun. Magnus absconded from his obligations to creation and quit the Mundus early in its genesis, leading his star-children back to Aetherius and cracking holes through the void in the process. Through these holes does the light of Aetherius reach Nirn, and through this light flows magicka. Yet magicka saturated Nirn since its inception, fueled by myriad et’ada and directed by the Divines into creation. It was gifted to us by Shezzar, whose Heart made Nirn Royal.    

Nirn! Heart of the Mundus! The Divines circle it just as the moons do, a celestial crown in the heavens! Not in Aetherius, but a realm all their own! And I ask you, if the flesh-divinity of the Gods dwells in the Mundus, why would our souls fly to Aetherius? Nay! They dwell in our realm, the realm of all mortals! Shezzar showed the Divines the horror of the Static Aether, and they gave everything to escape it. The Mundus is our birthright, our afterlife, and our promised land; Aetherius is unattainable antiquity, whose appeal is born only out of misplaced nostalgia.


