---
title: "From the Augmented Covenants: The Eight Virtues of the Divines"
reddit: 4h0t1n
author: Alarialas
date: 2016-04-29T18:31:32Z
---

*[This revision to a classic piece from the Augmented Covenants was removed from print after less than a year in circulation, due to the tragedies of the Oblivion Crisis, and a desire to maintain the morale of the Imperial citizenry. ~Aurelius Aelius, Imperial College of Theurgical Studies, 3E434]*    

#From the Augmented Covenants: The Eight Virtues of the Divines    
###Uriel Edition, 3E433    
###Transcribed by the Imperial College of Theurgical Studies    

By the intercession of St. Alessia, you may be so filled with grace, and the strength and wisdom that comes from grace, that through these Virtues you may become worthy of the Divines and Their glories. For the Divines, in Their wisdom, and knowing how stubborn and intemperate is man, have each bestowed upon man a Virtue, the emulation of which leads to Proper Life, bringing Glory and Goodness to the Soul.    

1. Stendarr gives unto us Justice. It is the rule and law of the Divines, born from the natural equality of all mortal souls. It is the precursor to Harmony and the bedrock of Proper Life.    

2. Arkay gives unto us Hope. It is both the desire for something and the expectation to receive it. Throughout the hardships of life, the Consecration of Arkay ensures our Divine Union, and Eternal Happiness, and is the embodiment of Hope.     

3. Mara gives unto us Charity. Charity is, for the love of the Divines, loving our neighbor as we love ourselves. It is what unites us with Divinity; it is the most excellent Virtue.      

4. Zenithar gives unto us Faith. It is belief in the Divines, and the Trust that Their teachings will lead to Happiness through Proper Life. It is the Trust in the Inherent Goodness of Humanity, and the Path to Virtue.    

5. Kynareth gives unto us Courage. It is the willingness to confront fear, pain, and loss, gifted unto Her by Shezzar the Missing. It was the very Bedrock of Nirn.    

6. Dibella gives unto us Temperance. It is moderation and self-restraint, the control of the will. Temperance leads unto Charity, but Gluttony and Avarice darken the Soul.    

7. Julianos gives unto us Prudence. It is wisdom and foresight, the map to Proper Life. In this sense, it is the Mother of all Virtues.    

8. Akatosh gives unto us Fortitude. It is the husband of Courage. It is the ability to maintain Virtue and achieve Proper Life even in the face of Adversity. It is the Strength, born of Faith, which allows Man to Endure.    

Through the pursuit of these Eight Virtues, each of us might attain Peace and Happiness, content in the Love of the Divines. Those who spurn these Virtues are cast from Their gaze. The prayers of those who lack Virtue go unheard; the shrines of the Divines are silent to them. Yet the Glory of Virtue is that it is always attainable. The wicked may repent, and return to a life of Virtue, and the Divines will smile on them again. Such is the Glory of the Eight, whose forgiveness and altruism are everlasting and miraculous.    
***

**The Talos Addendum**: *Though the Ninth Divine offers no Virtue of His own, Talos stands alone as a Paragon of the Eight Virtues. In all aspects of His life, He acted in line with these Virtues. His rise to power was a marvel of Courage, Prudence, Faith, and most of all, Fortitude. His reign was characterized by Charity, Temperance, Justice and renewed Hope. Talos stands alone as a shining example of Virtue, one His heirs continue to embody. As long as His heirs continue to rule and guide us, our Glorious, Eternal Empire shall surely shine with the Virtues of the Divines.*     


