---
title: "Serious Padomaic Heresy"
reddit: 4in3i7
author: optical_mouse
date: 2016-05-10T02:17:36Z
---

So. Let's talk about some padomaic spirits, starting with Lorkhaj. Just up front, this theory has some issues in some places, namely picking and choosing from various non-agreeing sources.

According to the Words of Clan Mother Ahnissi, Lorkhaj was born in "the great Great Darkness [the Void]." Rakkhat, the Fang of Lorkhaj, attempts to summon this Great Darkness into the world through the moons (see his dialogue in Maw of Lorkhaj.) Additionally, "And when he was born, the Great Darkness knew its name and it was Namiira."

So Namira and Lorkhan are strongly connected through their connection to the Great Darkness, which can reasonably be interpreted to be the Void. Note that Namira's sphere according to the Book of Daedra is "the ancient darkness."

If you abide by Mankar Camoran's ideas, Nirn is the daedric plane of Lorkhan, who was betrayed by jealous "divines." Note that this is 100% reconcilable with Khajiiti mythology where Nirni is an entirely unrelated spirit to the "new place" mentioned in the WoCMA if we assume Lorkhaj was, according to this theory, double-crossed. The "Great Darkness," jealous of Lorkhaj, told him to create Tamriel. He was then killed (insofar as that's possible) by his siblings, the children of Fadomai. 

So if the Great Darkness is the Void, which the Heart of Lorkhan is full of, and Namiira is the name of the void, and Namira's sphere *is* the void, there's one more spirit who's obviously related: Sithis. Sithis, according to the DB, is famously strongly associated with the Void. More interestingly, though, is the connection between the Night Mother and the Listener. The Night Mother could possibly be a woman who mantled Sithis/Lorkhan/Namira and, like Haskill, ended up as an entirely new spirit. The listener is, according to this theory, an analogue to the Dragonborn or, more importantly Shezarrines. Sithis is a strongly padomaic spirit/force (it's entirely possible these are the same), from before the universe existed, averse to men and mer, who creates incarnations on Nirn. Sound familiar? Note that Sithis, Lorkha{j,n}, Namiira (through her ring), and the Sharmat all fit this description. 

Finally, through this, we meet our Warrior, Mage, Thief, and Serpent combination.
* Lorkhan is the Warrior. Shezarrines are military generals and powerful combatants.
* Sithis is the Thief. He's a patron of assassins. 'Nuff said.
* The Sharmat is the Mage. Dagoth Ur was a powerful wizard capable of manipulating the Heart of Lorkhan and the Blight.
* Finally, Namira, the Void, is the Serpent, the outsider.

So we've got our unit of 4, at the very least. Taken further they could possibly even be aspects of the same spirit.

My apologies for the wall of text and/or bad theory. 
