---
title: "The Walking Elder Scrolls"
reddit: 4j24t2
author: PM_me_ur_bosmer
date: 2016-05-12T18:33:44Z
---

*The following manuscript was found in a heap of refuse outside of a stable.*

It might seem heretical,  but I believe that these Bosmeri spinners might just be walking and talking Elder Scrolls. You might laugh, dear reader, but consider the very implications of the Bosmeri mystics and their incredible abilities. It is said that they received their abilities from Y’ffre. It is because of this that, if anything, I believe Y’ffre himself may have written the Elder Scrolls. Maybe with some help with the other Aedra, but I do believe Y’ffre has the firmest hand in the creation of the Scrolls.

Consider what spinners can do. They tell the past, present and future in the form of metaphor - it's meant to be that way on purpose, I believe. Just like the Elder Scrolls. And spinners can weave illusions,  sometimes they're so strong that those involved believe them to be true, because in some cases, they are.

I have even heard of spinners sending others into another’s story, altering both of their very lives with their intervention. They can tell it as it is, was and were - through illusions and masterful storytelling and like the Elder Scrolls it can be changed, but it can come true too. Just like the Elder Scrolls. The Elder Scrolls? Bah! Seek an Elder Spinner if you want a change of pace.

**NOTE:** *This is my heretical headcannon. Spinners fascinate me because they seem to have this ability in one tiny package. In one quest in ESO you’re transported into the memory of Aranias who remembers what you did afterwards (although one part of the ‘story’ can’t be changed and the spinner literally tells you that). To the Spinners it seems everything is a story, but how you play in it is something they seem to know most of the time, it's like they can predict your actions in most cases.*
