---
title: "Amber Weapons in Saxhleel Culture"
reddit: 4jj5a3
author: PADOMAIC-SPECTROMETE
date: 2016-05-16T02:08:28Z
---

"So, what are those made of?" I quizzed the Wasseek Haleel, pointing to the spearheads of his shop. They were transparent, almost, and a very striking orange in color.

"Oh, these?!" The Argonian's face lit up in colors she could only guessed meant giddiness. He'd been a friendly face, unlike most in this damned swamp. "These a spearheads, my smoothskinss. Made of... Tree stone."

"You mean Amber?" I perplexed.

"Yess, yess indeed!" The lizard replied. "Our trees are a strange lot to your own. They are sturdier, thicker. We use this - amber, for things other than jewelry and decoration like in Cyrodiil. When we cut down an ancient tree we have watched for many star-circles since it's death, we use its solidified resin for tools and weapons. Hard as your steel, hard as malachite! We do not traditionally cast metals."

"I see." I nodded, fumbling desperately for my book and quill. "How to you craft it?"

"These, these." The Argonian pulled a number of oily grubs from his pockets, shoving them in her face. "These grubs, you see. They normally eat the resin for nourishment. Good trainers make them eat for you! Eat them into sharp edges with engravings - for a good fee, but still sturdy! Sturdy as ever! We make blades with them for cutting through bush, spearheads for hunting and war, but very expensive outside of simply spearheads for your average Egg-Sibling. Only chieftains use for armor. But you, rich lady! I like you! Three hundred Septims for a bush-cutter with *very* high quality amber!"

I generously accepted a sword-like instrument from the stall. It was lighter than I was expecting, much lighter. It reminded me of glass, but even lighter than that! Upon closer inspection, I saw the blade was full of bubbles, and near the hilt, there was what looked like a flesh fly *inside* the material.

"This isn't exactly a pure blade." I remarked skeptically. 

"No it is, smoothskin! Let me show you!" The weaponsmith leaned over the counter, pointing up and down the blade. "The color you see? It is dark, rich. That means it is older. Amber becomes harder over time, more expensive! And that flesh fly you see? That is a blessing! Shamens tell you exactly how old the amber is based off of specimens. You have a guaranteed quality!"

"Ah, I see!" I nodded, smiling to myself. Using insects *fossilized* inside the material? Fantastic! I ran my finger up and down the blunt side of the blade. It was almost slippery with how smooth it was. 

I left soon after, giving the chirpy Waseek Haleel a farewell. Today was a good day here, for once.
