---
title: "On Meridia, and Admixture"
reddit: 4jk0c7
author: fabricofspacetime
date: 2016-05-16T06:59:08Z
---

From the 1st Pocket Guide to the empire we have the sixteen acceptable blasphemies. Most notably, "To Meridia who contains the Plenum." Oxford dictionary defines plenum as "A space completely filled with matter, or the whole of space." 

So why does Meridia contain the Plenum, and what does this imply? We know from _[Aurbis: The Musical](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1oybze/aurbis_the_musical/)_ and _[Aurbis 2: Colorful Boogaloo](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1p1fip/aurbis_2_colorful_boogaloo/)_ that existence isn't just a dream, it's the song of a synesthetic godhead. Existence is the admixture of colour and sound. How does this fit with a Meridia Plenum though? Asnwer: Meridia's plane is referred to as The Coloured Rooms.  If Merida contains the Plenum, and Meridia's plane is The Coloured Rooms, then Meridia must contain the Plenum that is the Colour of the Aurbis. Meridia's Plane is the perception of the Aurbis.

From this we can draw that Meridia's sphere isn't just the energy of living things. It _is_ energy, it _is_ existence, it is birth through synesthesia. Meridia's sphere is everything related to mortality. Love, life, birth, death. This is why she hates undead. This is why she views them as an abomination. 

I feel I cannot post this without thanking /u/nagaialor for their help. They were a crucial part of making these thoughts come together, however haphazardly.

Addendum 1: Moreover, this is why Meridia fits perfectly as a daedra, when at first her status seems paradoxical. She was perfectly willing to assist Magnus in the creation of Mundus, and fled when she learned of its nature. However, she loved all that is was symbolic of, and came back in such a capacity as to be able to influence it without herself being changed. 

Addendum 2: In a lesser capacity, she could also watch over the life of her lover, the void ghost.

Addendum 3:  The ​_reason_​ Meridia contains the plenum is her romance-admixture with Lorkhan. When a paint is placed in contact with another, and removed, they do not remain separate perfectly, parts of them make a new unique, and often beautiful colour.
