---
title: "Hand of the Dark Brotherhood"
reddit: 4m90x9
author: Commander-Gro-Badul
date: 2016-06-02T19:50:32Z
---

*By an anonymous devoted, 2E 583.*

Four fingers and a thumb has the hand of the Night Mother, our dark matron. And so four and one members has the Black Hand. A finger for each speaker of the dread council of the Dark Brotherhood, and a thumb for the One Who Listens. Four fingers and a thumb on the hand of Sithis.

Four fingers and a thumb held the Blade of Woe when the Mother of Death slew her children for her consort Sithis, the great Darkness. Five were the children she slew. Five were the hearts our Shadow Matriarch consumed in the Dread Father's name. Five are those who keep the Blade of Woe safe from those who would destroy it.

Four are the fingers who speak. Speak the words of the Night Mother. But only one is the thumb who listens. Listens to the words of the Night Mother. Infinite is the Night Mother, our immortal guiding light. Daedric or Mundial? Her origins are unknown. Nothing is Sithis, held back by the life of Anu.

But death grants our Dread Father strength, and weakens the Everything.

Sithis is the invisible and unexisting arm reaching out one of his infinite blacks hands, one for each mortal existence, which is and are the Night Mother(s). One is the listener, who hears the Matron's words. Four are the speakers, who speak what the listener hears. Hundreds are those who follow.

Death is eternal. Death is nothing. Death is the Void. Death is Sithis.

Woe unto they, Night Mother, those born to Anu.

Prey to thee, Dread Father, those born to Anu.

Four fingers and a thumb.

We know.

We know you by your eye.
