---
title: "Musings on Vivec and Sheogorath written in a way both would appreciate"
reddit: 4q41f0
author: syzithryx
date: 2016-06-27T15:54:25Z
---

Some things I wrote in a 36 Lessons-induced delirium of poetism yesterday. They contain snippets of understanding which I couldn't put into normal words and I ended up sounding very MK. Sorry if it makes no sense, but I thought people might be interested. :3

"I am the sex-death of language. Does not a poet at once make love to words, and murder them in the name of a Nu form of expression? The mother-meanings die in childbirth and their children are spells like none before. Words are his sword and he cuts them with a sword made of words."

"MUATRA. ART AUM. TRAUMA. The spear of the Hermaphrodite is the peace-unity-divinity (AUM M-ANU PADHOME HUM?) of Art / Poetry, which is Trauma and thus terror, for art is the theory of no theory (bringing structure to the structureless feeling), the terror of no terror (a holy terror - awe or beauty-glory - yet detached from the feeling itself, an emotion composed of words only). Sheogorath is the most important of the four corners. He alone could match Vivec in self-contradiction. Is it a coincidence that Vivec's right side is a golden saint and his left side a dark seducer? Or that the Duke of Mania dies in an orgy and the Duchess of Dementia (I started to say Dimensia - the dimension of two minds) dies in mere death? Her conspiracy theories brought her terror. His pleasure (which is terror's twin) gave him art (which is theory's twin). Duchess-Duke-Madgod. ALM-SI-VI."

EDIT: By the way, just noticed: of all the locations in any of the games, only two realms have mushroom trees: Vvardenfell and the Shivering Isles. Yet another link between Almsivi and Sheogorath.
