---
title: "Excerpt from \"On Dragons\""
reddit: 4rlqby
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2016-07-07T00:38:15Z
---

“Why is that the citizenry always come to the temples of the Divines asking about demons? But I suppose I can provide some assistance...if you want to know more about the Green Dragon, outside of cults this might be the best place for an answer. Although Great Akatosh is the Dragon God of the Empire and always will be, there was a time when he had yet to reveal himself to the Heartland tribes, resulting in the progenitors of the Imperial people - the Nedes - worshipping another dragon god in his absence. Although texts and tablets from those times are scarce and confusing to decipher, some of them mention this other draconic god extensively. Known simply as the Pryit, which was an ancient Nedic term that means ‘to seep’, he is commonly believed by modern day scholars to be an early title for the entity we know as Peryite. The Pryit was a god of life, death, and time in regards to balance and history, and many Nedic tribes revered him as an ancestor; some writings even refer to the Pryit as a fallen star, a blazing comet of fear that became a drake that danced across the night sky in ancient times. The inhabitants of Cyrodiil came to worship this ‘star-dragon’, but this worship was short-lived, for Saint Alessia enlightened her people of the glories of Akatosh and the Pryit was forgotten in favor of the true Dragon God that rose to the forefront of Tamrielic religion. Nevertheless, I suppose traces of the star-dragon can still be found in Imperial culture, although the mere thought of Daedric taint in our society makes me cringe. But these traces are mostly found in artistic representations of Akatosh and certain religious practices used throughout the Colovian Estates and Nibenay. I mean, even I must admit that carvings of Akatosh, the Pryit, and Peryite are strikingly similar to one another except for one important difference - the Pryit and Peryite are always depicted as wyrms, immortal spirits related to dragons but more tied to the earth, denoting their inferior status and power. Hence, the additional legs. Commoners tend to forget there are many different types of dragons - the once common Akaviri drake, the elusive Atmoran jill, the apathetic Tamrielic wyrm, and several more, all children of the Time God. Except for dragonlings...nobody knows what those are.”
