---
title: "The Holy Order and Righteous Army of the Divines Temple"
reddit: 4s0nak
author: swedishplayer97
date: 2016-07-09T15:03:47Z
---

Hammerfell. As an inpdendent power, it needs a strong force projection in order to remain apart from both the Cyrodiilic Empire and Aldmeri Dominion, as well as other threats such as Thras, Pyandonea and the Saxhleel nation. Ever since its secession from the Empire right after the Great War in 4E 175, Hammerfell's largest army has been the Holy Order and Righteous Army of the Divines Temple - often shortened to simply the Righteous Army.

The Righteous Army traces its root to the Oblivion Crisis of 3E 433. Back then, Hammerfell's numerous knightly orders had been largely absorbed by the greater Imperial Legion and the Ruby Ranks. The  Empire largely detested independent military forces patrolling territories under their control, and as such gradually reduced their influence until they were but a shadow of their former self, engulfed by the mightier armies from Cyrodiil. It was the Warp in the West in 3E 417 that finally put the nail in the coffin for the military orders, including the Order of the Candle, Order of Diagna, Scarab Knights and more - all of which became part of the Legion.

Under new authority by the Imperials, it came to no surprise that when the Daedric forces invaded Tamriel, all Legions were ordered back to Cyrodiil, leaving Hammerfell unprotected. Few security forces managed to fight back the demonic incursion. Those that did convened around Temples to the Divines around the province. Slowly, but surely, a noticable organization emerged, which later evolved into a proper militia.

Daedric forces attacked and destroyed many holy sites across Hammerfell. Many militia garrisons were forced to fall back, the majority of them gathering around the Grand Sacellum of Sunkeep in the Alik'r Desert. They lured the Daedra away from major settlements in order to decapitate them with one swift strike. As the demonic army approached, one nameless man stood atop a crate and spoke to the militiamen; "We are in the right! We are the just ones! Without us, Hammerfell will fall to Oblivion! Show them the true strength of the Redguards, the warriors of Yokuda, today! Send them back where they came from! For the Divines! For the righteousness of our world!"

And so, their name was born. They lost the battle though, and the nameless man was slain by a Daedroth, with the Grand Sacellum in ruins. However, not long after, Martin Septim defeated Mehrunes Dagon in the Imperial City, sending all the invaders back to the Deadlands. The surviving militiamen gathered around the ruins of Sunkeep, and made a vow to defend Hammerfell for all eternity, for no one else will. When the Legion returned, they were greeted by a large horde of angry Redguards. Tamriel's new Emperor, Titus Mede, promised Hammerfell greater independence than before. And from there on out, Hammerfell stood under the watchful eyes of the Holy Order and Righteous Army of the Divines Temple.

But the army was only dedicated to protecting the Divines. The worshippers of the Old Gods, particularly many Crowns, were shunned by the Righteous Army. They couldn't join their ranks, and when their places of worship came under attack from bandits and the like, the Army turned a blind eye. They had taken the nameless man's words to heart; only protect the Nine Divines, and nothing else. City governors even had to pay tribute in order to get protection. So, in response, worshippers of the Old Yokudan pantheon formed their own military; the Order of the Old Gods.

Animosity between the two armies was evident, as it had always been between Crowns and Forebears, but it had never been stronger. Things didn't improve when the Night of Green Fire occurred in 4E 42. Thalmor agents from the new Aldmeri Dominion had pursued Altmer refugees into Sentinel. The refugees hid in a shrine to Morwha, an Old God. When the Thalmor caught them, they were slaughtered. The battle was so intense the entire district was destroyed. By the time the Order arrived, it was all too late. They learnt the Righteous Army could and would indeed had made a difference, but refused, simply because the refugees chose a shrine to the Old Gods.

This vengeful bitterness continued for well over a century, until the Great War. The Aldmeri Dominion attacked the Cyrodiilic Empire, including Hammerfell. The two armies were forced to fight side-by-side against the Altmer invaders, but were rained in by the larger Imperial Legion. When Emperor Titus Mede II signed the White-Gold Concordat in 4E 175, the war was declared over, and part of the deal was to give large swathes of southern Hammerfell to the Dominion. Enraged, the Redguards fought back and declared independence, driving the Altmer out. The two orders reconciled their old differences with the help of pure rage, and secured peace in 4E 180, as the Second Treaty of Stros M'kai is signed.

From then on out, the Righteous Army and Order of the Old Gods worked together to root out Daedra worshippers, necromancers, bandits and other, general unlawfulness from Hammerfell. And should the Empire or Dominion ever attack them again, know that they will face a horde of angry, religious Redguards.
