---
title: "Dust Flow"
reddit: 4t29th
author: RottenDeadite
date: 2016-07-16T00:34:16Z
---

Dust is an extremely fine powder caused by the deterioration of Secunda's own rock and soil by the Static Decay Field.  Its granularity is sufficiently minuscule that it can flow like water, producing a large amount of friction and a high level of static electricity. The management and awareness of Dust is a daily concern for the natives of Tatterdemalion and any assistance the Thalmor can bring to them in this matter is always welcomed.

Be aware of your surroundings! Ground-side operatives are advised to keep equipment clear of Dust Flow rivers and lakes as both tend to discharge harmful amounts of lightning across the landscape. Watch for scorch marks, burnt animal corpses, and damaged terrain as these may be signs of a local electrical disturbance.

Dust-storms are also a major issue on Secunda. These atmospheric disturbances cause significant damage from wind, lightning, and the abrasive nature of Dust in high-speed winds. Warning: the passing of small tornadoes have been measured by our instruments.

Ambient moisture is absorbed by Dustflow, resulting in small particles of mud that sink quickly to the bottom of the stream. This is the major contributing factor to the lack of surface water on Secunda. Any large deposits of water are quickly absorbed and redistributed.

That very same granular behavior often results in water contamination. Operatives on Secunda are HIGHLY ADVISED to avoid drinking any local water they find. Even as little as one fluid dram of Dust can render a hectolitre of fresh water poisonous. While alchemy-based filtration systems are available, they are unreliable at worst and unacceptable at best. Please maintain access to a reliable source of fresh water at all times.

In the event that stored water is either unavailable or becomes contaminated, many of the local settlements on Secunda employ moisture collection machines that draw ambient water from nearby atmospheres. Smaller settlements respond well to intimidation tactics, while larger settlements may require an exchange of goods in trade.

(There is, of course, a direct connection between Quickrot and Dust. This will be explored in side-quests.)
