---
title: "Last Wish of a Ra Gada"
reddit: 4uo18x
author: Commander-Gro-Badul
date: 2016-07-26T10:50:24Z
---

**(This is a translation of a very old text, recovered from the old and crumbling dungeon of No Shira Citadel. I hope that you, my sisters, will have use of its contents. - Wlahaba al-Namha, scholar the No'Raqqi Sisterhood of Ra-Yoku'Iquizzi)**

_______________________________

*By Mahryf al-Kamlesh, ex-soldier in the Yokudan Imperial Army of Khefrem*

Khefrem's Boot is doomed. It is doomed to fall, to be crushed under the cursed boot of "Prince" Hubalajad. Wherever he goes bad luck follows. Here it hasn't rained for two Moon-cycles. I had to pay 37 gold coins only to buy this vellum scroll to write on. Wherever I go I see beggars on the sides of the streets. I see Khajiiti skooma-dealers freely being let into the city the Prince built, Abah's Landing almost seems like a fitting name for that dirty backwater. Bahraha's Bleak Veil cultists are free to roam around the tombs and gravesites. I know that Hubalajad denies it, but I know that his uncle is a necromancer. I saw a walking skeleton outside of his study once. I didn't tell the guards, for they are so firecely loyal to the Prince that they'll slay or arrest anyone who dares to criticize his rule. Hubalajad even makes deals with the Sload and Sea Elves of the southern seas. He trades them cultural treasures un exchange for foul magical orbs which summon water. I don't care if it helps the inhabitnts of the city survive, that water must surely be cursed. Nothing good has ever come from such magic, mark my words. This has to end.

I pray to Morwha to make the prince unfertile, so that he may not pass on his curse to any offspring. I pray to you so that you can make the prince unattractive to all the women of this land.

I pray to Ruptga to make Hubalajad's life short. I pray to you so that you can remove this heavy burden from the shoulders of the Yokudan people.

I pray to Tava to make the Prince's body rot, and be eaten by birds. I pray to you so that Hubalajad may never recieve a royal burial, which he does not deserve.

I pray to Tu'whacca to deny Hubalajad passage into the Far Shores. I pray to you to prevent Hubalajad to bring his curse to the afterlife, and corrupt the honoured dead there.

I pray to Satakal to shed the Worldskin. I pray to you to erase the memory Hubalajad from this world, and begin existence anew.

Before the Gods I say this:

*Hubalajad yqq abah, a Khefrem a tyyndai Yokudan yqq bahrum.*

________________________
