---
title: "Soles of Almalexia, Madness- Addendum"
reddit: 4w1n2t
author: Serjo_Relas_Andrano
date: 2016-08-03T23:45:30Z
---

*Again House Sul must rectify the faithless words of traitor priests; we cast these words to urð &amp; urð, wherein they blossom as annihilators.*

---

With the slick knife of the savage, She usurped his Walking Ways-

[Almalexia, the Face-Snaked Queen, was the One to seize St. Nerevar's holy feet](http://www.imperial-library.info/sites/default/files/foulmurder.jpg). It is elucidated in most ancient liturgies- even by the Morag Vehk Himselfe!- that the soles shall ground One's being to the Mundus, so that we grow from them, even as the roots of the tibrol. How then, if She has taken his roots, the soul of his spirit's journey?

Thus, She has taken his path to Statehood, his hard-won destiny. When She struck the Doom-Drum, She took the Kingship of Dragons from its Golden Tones (for, [modern theosophy reveals](http://orig13.deviantart.net/fd8c/f/2014/046/9/e/lorkhan_c0da__by_nox_fox_by_izz_noxfox-d76jen8.gif), Aka IS [One with] the Heart of Shor, as the Mutant is the Heart of Time, et al, ad nauseum), but She took the facets of Lor-Khan, GHARTOKI AE SCARAB, from Her husband's weary feet.

For,

&gt;the legendary immortal hero, warrior, sorceror [sic], and king variously known as Pelinal Whitestrake, Harrald Hairy Breeks, Ysmir, Hans the Fox,

(-*Before the Ages of Man*, Aicantar of Shimerene)

&amp; Mora Nerevar, anon Indoril &amp; Hortator, was the emanation of Shor as foretold by "suns &amp; aeons &amp; immortal wars" who shall serve the Faith of Liberty at the [Last &amp;] Last.

It was thus that Alma touch'd the Sigil of Royalty, &amp; created Herselfe the Wandering King (Doomed to Walk-Away).

But this amalgo-formula is dangerous, for the Dragon cannot be reconciled so violently without recourse, &amp; it was even thus that She shared in the corruption of the Pelinal-Ada, Seated in the Shivering-Corner:

Pelin-Alma, the [K]night-Mother of Morrowind!

More of this after a brief recess.

-S.R., M-N-K-R
