---
title: "The Doom-Drum and the Lucky Coin"
reddit: 4x3t7i
author: Voryan-who-Dreams
date: 2016-08-10T19:08:08Z
---

So I enjoy writing quite a bit and something I've been working on is an Elderscrolls Fanfiction.

The subject of the post tells the story for those who know the story of the game Morrowind and this ponderous community seems the sort who not only enjoy examining the lore pulling at its threads and seeing if the strands fit here better than there.

We know the Nerevarine may have encountered a stout "Legion Veteran" who identified himself as Wulf. This Imperial bid the Nerevarine carry this token up the Red Tower as a favor to an old man whose time had passed.

Now after completing the main quest a priest of the Imperial Cult of the Nine Divines will say that this was the Emporer-come God Tiber Septim/Talos. Now according to at least one theory, Talos is comprised of the enantiomorphic Oversoul which consists of Tiber Septim, Wulfharth, and Zurin Arctus. Talos who mantled Lorkhan, Wulfharth Ash-King who was the Avatar of Shor (Lorkhan).

Now, as a being mantled as Lorkhan who is the Avatar of the Missing-God by naming of Man, what in Oblivion would he want the Nerevarine to carry his coin into a volcano for? For what possible favor could involve a coin as the Incarnate battled the Devil of Dagoth?

The Mundus is by some statements a place of magickal sound... and can't metal be attuned to react to certain frequencies? What then would this coin be for under Red Mountain?

 ... Perhaps it was tuned to the sound of a drumbeat. Perhaps it was attuned to the sound of THE Drumbeat.

What if, during his fight against Dagoth Ur (or mad race to the Akhulakhan depending on what tales of the Incarnate you've heard) a certain token thrummed in resonance to the Doom-doom... Doom-doom... that echoed in that chamber most profane?

Now let us suppose this Lucky Coin was not meant to be lucky just to our Incarnate.

Perhaps it was to be lucky for one who in some accounts stood under that Tower as Chimer made war on profane and their ancient enemies, one who faced Nerevar Moon-and-Star. One who was to stand as general beside the Devil of Dagoth, whose treachery long ages ago had brought the Ash-King to Red Mountain. But before delving into this of the Ash-King let us examine the Devil of Dagoth...

Three belied you, three betrayed you! One you betrayed was three times true!

These words have often given me pause as it has resonated within. Three has always been an important number to the Chimer/Dunmer race it seems: note the handles of the doors in any tomb on Vvardenfell. But what if Dagoth Ur meant this literally?

Perhaps the first show of Loyalty was bringing word of the Heart to Nerevar when he walked in hall of both Chimer and Dwemer as friend. Perhaps the second show was in convincing the Dwemer in the coming war that he wasfriend but to do so he needed to gather allies as a show of fealty to the Dwemer. And so it was that he went to the ancient enemies of his people in frozen Skyrim, as Warlords of old had done before their dealings had led the nords to conquer them.

And the forces of the Hortator were let in by treachery... it was this act- his final show of loyalty- that is the Third show of his loyalty as he betrayed Dumac and Wulfharth.

Now back to the Ash-King. The Nords had before conquered Resdayn (Morrowind) due to similar situations such as this. A Chimer Warlord would pledge his service to a Nord Warlord in exchange for making war upon his enemies. Wulfharth was fighting now not for land or a pledge service... but for the very Heart of the god of whom he stood as Avatar.

Do you think he had any intentions of letting ANY mer touch the Doom-Drum?

But the Battle of Red Mountain was not to be his, felled against his enemies and an entire race gone.

But here now stood the reincarnation of this ancient enemy (that at least one account says he struck down Lorkhan in this battle) about to march against the one who betrayed him.

Now suppose as the Heart was struck by the Incarnate armed with Kagnerac's Tools that this coin which had been focusing on the Tonal forces of the Doom-Drum was to keep the ENERGY of the Heart from being truly dispelled (though assuredly severing those mortals Who Were Not Meant To Be's connection) but storing the energy... and let us suppose, as the Nerevarine struck the blow against Ur as the Ahkulakhan failed, the coin slipped away and fell after its parent shards into Red Mountain.

Now... what are those deposits from that dot the ashlands of Solstheim? From whence do they come? 

And could there be the resonance of that terrible tone hiding somewhere, powering these shards? These heartstones?

And finally... what if the spirit of the mortal that was sundered from the Heart's energy who was yet there as it fell fled, chasing that which had sustained it for Eras. The Sharmat forged his connection to the Heart through unknown means as some may recall...






So, something or raving lorebeards?
