---
title: "The Founding of White-Gold"
reddit: 4x8g9t
author: Commander-Gro-Badul
date: 2016-08-11T15:07:08Z
---

*By Eurium Veresatius, librarian of the Imperial library*

Adressed to Anthalwien of the Arenthia Mages Guild.

__________________________________________

I would first and foremost like to deeply thank you for agreeing to take care of the books and tomes of the Imperial Library until the city has been reclaimed. I hope that that is done before the Daedra have burned all of the remaining books. I hear that they have already started doing that in the Arboretum District. I mourn greatly for all those who still remain in the city. I just hope that they are granred a quick death. But Daedra are rarely so kind. At least I managed to bring a few families with me on the boats we used to get the books off the island. I did however sadly have to leave some books behind to be able to do so. I hid some of the books and tomes in the sewers, and I pray that the Daedra or the Worm Cultist do not find them there.

But as you surely have figured out the reason for me writing to you was not to tell of Molag Bal's horrors. It is something far more important than that, trust me. I have discovered an ancient tome in the Imperial Library, one which seems to have gone undetected by me and all librarians of the Imperial library since the days of Alessia. It appears to be an Ayleid text written in Ehlnofex, a language which I sadly have but limited understanding of. But from what I have been able to translate it seems to describe the founding of the White-Gold Tower, a subject which we know very little about. I am hoping that you, along with anyone in the Arenthia Mages Guild who has knowledge of Ehlnofex may assist in translating the text. I am sure that the Empress Regent herself would reward you for such a service to the Empire when she returns. I would of course also pay you for such a service rendered. Anyways, I have here written down a transliterated version of the tome. Or at least what remains of it, time has regrettably made parts of it completely undecipherable.

__________________________________

YAA AYLEIDOON AV CYR-ODIIL AH MATHYRNE CHEAV GLATHAME

AYLEIDOON HAME AE TEL AH AE MATHYRNE AV LATTABAL

TEL AE MALATEL AH LAETH BAL-EL

GLATHAME BAL AE TELVARLA MALAVE CHIM-EL ADABAL

CHIM-EL ADABAL AE TELVARLA MERID-NUNDA AHSVAE CYR LORKHAN

AE BAL GLATHAME AH GLATHAME-TEL AH BAL CYRODIIL AH MUNDEX

TELVARLABAL SHANTE AV AETHERITWYLL MERID-NUNDA

MERID-NUNDA AH GLATHAME-TEL LAAEVEL NIRN AH MUNDEX

AHSVAE ADAMANTIA AH GLATHAME-TEL NIRN AH MUNDEX AE OIO

AHSVAE GLATHAME-TEL VALAM MERI AE LAAEVE

SUNNAE OIA GLATHAME-TEL AH SUNNAE OIA MUNDEX

_______________________

I truly hope that you will be able to translate this tome. Trust me when I say that I would eternally be indebted to you if you do so. I know that you have already done much for me but please! I'll do anything.

_________________________
