---
title: "Confusion in Blacklight"
reddit: 523jbu
author: Erethor
date: 2016-09-10T15:17:43Z
---

*Journal of Tedril Omalen, acolyte of the New Temple, found in Blacklight around 4E32.*


*27th of Sun's Dawn*

Our guests from the Stonefalls' ashlands are gone this morning. I learnt so much from them during these three months, listening to their leader Ashana who was commenting on texts kept alive only by the strength of memory. I dared to ask her why they were going so soon, since we had centuries of theology to get back into. Without smiling, she answered : "*When Veloth departed from the Set, he got our people into an everlasting pilgrimage. The end of the journey is the death of thought. Keep moving, young Tedril.*" 


*18th of First Seed*

Something will happen soon. I feel the tension among the priests. Dissension is growing in the heart of some followers. I saw several Azurite preachers discussing in what seemed to be a violent debate. Nothing unusual : since the Red Year, the Azurite have always known the most agitated renewal of their faith. So I didn't interfere : in the Temple of Blacklight, acolytes remain attached to the service of a specific face of the Reclamations. And so far, I serve at the altars of Mephala. My word is uncalled for higher ranks' discussions. I keep silent, but I feel it's coming.


*23th of First Seed*

The first fires have been set. With great joy dozens of zealots started to throw Saint Vivec and Saint Almalexia's writings in the pyre. So far, Redoran guards have let it be. "Does not create too much trouble to intervene". I keep praying and reading at the altar of Mephala. That's the place of an acolyte. But I can smell the smoke when I retire in my cell.


*25th of First Seed*

[Bervyn Hlarar](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/51lesd/autodaf%C3%A9_in_blacklight/) made a speech in the central part of the Temple, where all three branch of the new clergy meet. With a triumphant smile, he shouted that the final cleansing of the dunmer hearts had started. I know : his crap talk is already on every wall of the city. Behind all my fellow acolytes, I can only watch as the priests chase them out of the Temple, putting a good distance between our precious scrolls and holy banners and these pyromaniacs. But it can't end there, can it ?


*Datation erased*

They stormed in the Temple at night, and the streets of Blacklight became a complete mess. I found shelter on the heights of the city. Now the Redoran are everywhere. I just had the time to save some scrolls while the Azurite were ripping every piece of paper from the old time. The high priest of Mephala stirred a blade and soiled the holy ground with blood in vain. Bervyn's followers took him outside and throw him screaming in the iconoclastic inferno. Madness.  "Blasphemy" is on their lips, though I can't hear anything but confuse growling from here.

[text lost]

...phala, what now ?
