---
title: "RETURN:TRUE; A(nother) Numantian Manifesto"
reddit: 52tql4
author: Serjo_Relas_Andrano
date: 2016-09-15T00:52:01Z
---

Numantianism *is a cultural revolution young &amp; tenebrous in origin. Some have marked it as the return of the old* Temple Zero *cabal* (Marlo)*, altho' others have measured it a distinct entity or an aberration. It is more than likely it's pattern emerged when* House Sul *broke the dream-weir over the* Valus Mts.*, their perilous, tho' advanced* akasha *spilling over into the* Cyrodiils' *dream-sleeves, awakening new (&amp; prescient) thought ministrations, often rapt with querulous mutation symbolism* (Bos-Huul). *It has been credited as the first true* anarchist *rebellion, a revolution of* thought*, of a mindful exaltation* (Nikodiil). *It may be seen to intersect with, not encompass, various* political *or* artistic *cells to have formulated within the past* 3 *or* 4 decades- Amaranthites, Thule Frontsmen, Sons of Hora, Varenites, *etc.- but bears no internal structure nor organization to-date, as, its advocates maintain, is best* (Morag).

---

A Selected Extract from Ben Skottius Numius, Lord Viatis, Councilman Aleshut's *Address* to the river-drakes, anent the Question of *The Sovereignty of the Individual in the Return Theogony*:

If an Absolute Reality may be said to exist:

The individual is an amusing myth.

There is no Absolute.

That is: the only absolute is Nothing.

Reality is Oblivion.

We are a myth.

We are a most important myth.

For only by our shared illusory substance, infinitely permutated, vindicated by interpretation- of what?- of itself- the ultimately mutable: void-naught- is something made from Nothing.

We are the ex nihilo.

Thus, We are God,

the God that existeth in innumerable refraction, realizing itself by infinite promulgation.

Life- all Life- is Godly.

All Life is an heavenward motion.

Paradise, notwithstanding refutation: when all the dead &amp; the living are the same;

per reflection, God perceives itself with perfect clarity, harmony of Tones, transcending Myth &amp; Oblivion, becomes the Answer,

RETURNS TRUE.

---

*Numerous manifestos, platforms &amp; social theories have been set down in its influence, but its precise ideology- if such can even be extant- is so nebulous &amp; all-inviting, the movement has become a bastion for the nadir-dwellers of bigots, reactionaries, paranoid or conspiracy-minded, nationalists &amp; continentalists alike, the hyper-violent, dangerously mis-guided. And yet, as its defenders hasten to lobby, many proponents enumerate themselves the poets, the artists &amp; philosophers, the most peaceable &amp; idealistic statesmen wishing to change the* Empire *for the best &amp; wisest, for a coda to our self-destruction.*

-Swain-to-Zero 
