---
title: "The Aurbic Mirror, I by Chimere Greyman 4E 197"
reddit: 52x220
author: thetonalcypher
date: 2016-09-15T16:39:02Z
---

*Elouan,*  
*Enclosed is the first part of a quadrilogy written by the influential mage and scholar. Perhaps even you have heard- this text has been the point of much controversy and debate. I have waited months now for your letters to offer an opinion.*   
*It is heresy, yet there is something here. What good has our dogma brought us? This talk of the "Bad Man;" it's begun to seem laughable to me--surely such a being cannot be absolute--, and this splintering of our people dispiriting. What are we to do, bow to the Thalmor and accept eradication? Perhaps there is another way.  But I'll hold my pen and await your response. There's also the curious infusion of Altmer and Imperial idiom and the obscure nature of the text itself to consider. I know your nature and suspect these oddities will only enliven the text in your mind.*  
*What of the disappearance of Ormil Direnni?*  
*Blessings of Julianos,*  
*Mael*  

&amp;nbsp;

&amp;nbsp;



**The Aurbic Mirror, I by Chimere Greyman**

&amp;nbsp;


You are the Aurbic desire.  
As is the Aurbic desire is, so is the tonal harmony of Anui-El / Sithis.  
As is the tonal harmony of Anui-El / Sithis, so is the deed of Lorkhan.   
As is the deed of Lorkhan, so is your destiny.  


&amp;nbsp;

1. Know that all Aurbis is the Dreamer's dream. Therefore find your enjoyment in his ineffable, ineluctable task and covet not the nearness of Aetherius. Aetherius will come; soon or late, you will come to Aetherius.


2. Performing the Dreamer's work here one should wish to sustain Lorkhan's deed. Each Enantiomorphic Resonance is a further latticing of the Crystal Dreamer: infinite faces split from each other, reflecting--therefore containing--the higher gradient. In each face's reflection is the ever-widening eye of the Dreamer gazing upon his own visage.


3. Daedra, verily, are planes reflecting the Aedra in their chains and to worship the Daedra is death, yet those who fail to see the Daedric reflections of their own visage are annihilators of the I. 
