---
title: "How Talos elevated."
reddit: 53c4dg
author: thesenjusaiyan
date: 2016-09-18T13:23:51Z
---

So I just read The Acturian Heresey for the first time  a few days ago so I've been interested in the lore of Talos being three men, but he could actually be much more than that. I was reading around a few forums and this is my Talos theory. Since I'm using The Acturian Heresey as my primary source and in game sources are contradictory, this could totally be wrong, but it could totally be right at the same time. It's confusing at first but I think it makes sense. I'll try to make this as brief as possible, but it's definitely not going to be short. I want to know what you guys/gals think of this theory.It's a speed though of a lot of lore so check out The Acturian Heresey if you want to, I don't want to be misleading.

Lorkhan/Shor/Sep is the body of Nirn, he is what holds it together. From the UESP page on Lorkhan, "After the world materialized, myths hold that Lorkhan was killed, mutilated, or at least separated from his divine center, the Heart of Lorkhan...in an event sometimes called the shattering of Lorkhan. This separation, which purportedly took place in Tamriel,  is typically called a punishment, but stories often suggest Lorkhan submitted to it voluntarily. Whatever remained of Lorkhan afterward was exiled to wander through creation." 

Shezzarines are known to be avatars of Lorkhan or Shor, meaning they're Lorkhan, or rather a part of him, in a mortal form. Which could be what's 'wandering' around. Through the process of  not only mantling(or CHIM) but also Enantiomorphing, three Shezzarines achieving apotheosis making a new super Lorkhan, Talos.

Mantling as derived from the Elder Scrolls Wiki is when, "one entity becomes another entity by impersonating it... Merely impersonating someone publicly is not enough to mantle them. To mantle someone, you must become so like them that there ceases to be a functional difference between the two entities; it seems that at this point the universe itself ceases to distinguish between the two, and they become one entity." 

Wouldn't it be easy for avatars of Lorkhan to mantle Lorkhan since they are in fact,  Lorkhan?

Going further Enantiomorph from the same source can be called a state of duality that began with Anu and Padomay where "It is the ideal combined state of conflict between two opposing forces that are so similar that they could change their roles and not even know it....both individuals are "one" and their conflict is "eleven," how are they supposed to be able to tell which "one" they are in the "eleven" (i.e, they are unable to determine their own roles in the fight)? When "one" and "one" are added together, when "eleven" collapses, they make "two," which is the number Vivec assigns to the Enantiomorph. Other sources seem to imply that an Enantiomorph must be accompanied by a requisite betrayal."

There are also 3 roles to make an Enantiomorph the combatants, the observer, and the catalyst. The combatants are the opposing forces and will be stated below; the Observer, the who determines the winner among these equals is Lorkhan, since they're pieces of Lorkhan; the catalyst, is a new creation that represents Enantiomorph also stated below.

In simpler terms being an Enantiomorph means you're the opposite and equal of another entity. Separate parts of a pair until they collapse into one entity( think Sheogorath/Jyggalag same entity, yet two polar opposite). In order for the conflict to end there must be a winner from amongst the equal forces(think Champion of Cyrodiil since he defeats Jyggalag and splits Sheogorath into a newish entity combined with his self)

Each of these three Shezzarines we're all brilliant strategists at the art of war and had become an Enantiomorph of the other  while they were also betrayed by one another at some point in time.

Here are there descriptions of the well know Shezzarines compiled mostly from The Acturian Heresey:

Ysmir(title or his name) Wulfharth, an avatar of Shor born in Atmora and became a High King of Skyrim. He waged a war against the Dunmer and their Tribunal and lost/died and became an Underking(possibly one of many). He died arguably 2-3 times before Apothesis, after this death(he may have actually been a series of avatars of Shor, who an aspect of Lorkhan himself, when he dies he turns into dust and becomes the Grey Wind until his body reforms) the Greybeards' shouts woke him up from death(after his body reformed). They spoke of a prophecy that a chosen one would unite the broken empire and defeat the elves(Tribunal) Wulfharth thinks it's him but the Greybeards shout him away to his second death(even though he can use the voice too), proving he's not the chosen one. His spirit reforms as the Grey Wind/Underking. He is told that the chosen one would be a youth from High Rock and to "remember the color of betrayal" Wulfharth then WANDERS around looking for the chosen one.  
 
Hjalti Early-Beard is the half-Nord/half-Breton chosen one born the island of Alcaire in High Rock, a general who fought under Falkreath's King Cuhlecain but fought with the Nords against the Bretons. The night before a battle where Hjalti and his men were low in morale and expected no reinforcements, or a victory. A storm came to Hjalti and spoke to him.  The Grey Wind(Wulfharth) found him and taught him the voice(or demonstrated it). At dawn Hajlti went to the gates of of Old Hroldan with a storm(Wulfharth)  just over his head, no arrows could penetrate his cover. After his victory he/they became known as  General Hjalti Talos or Talos Stormcrown( talos means stormcrown so idk why they repeat it) Once Cuhlecain was ready to ascend the throne Hjalti murders him and his loyalists, then blames it on his opposition in the western Reach. He ascends the throne and was named Ysmir by the Greybeards at some other point in time.

Zurin Arctus, an Underking (possibly one of many), The Grand battlemage, and former overseer of the imperial city before General Hjalti Talos takes the throne.  Arctus was also apart of the coup, propogated the lie that Hjalti's throat was slit to avoid suspicion on the Breton's part and is also the one who crowns Hjalti to be Tiber Septim, Emperor of the united Cyrodiil. With the tasks of running the administration proving to be time consuming for  Hjalti, he sends his Imperial Battlemage to expand his empire into High Rock and Skyrim as Tiber Septim, the emperor. Tiber was frequently known to be at two places at once.


It doesn't stop there.  The Enantiomorph betrayals are the simplest(but still confusing) parts to understand IMO.

After the human kingdoms had been assimilated, Wulfarth(with a reformed body maybe?) wanted Hjalti to wage his revenge war against the Dark elves but Hjalti decided not to fearing the power of the tribunal. Arctus advised him against such a war, but Wulfharth reminds Hjalti he is destined to conquer all the elves even the Tribunal and that after the dark elves are finished Tiber Septim can take their power(i.e godhood) and use it against the High Elves (oldest enemies of Lorkhan) Eventually Tiber declares war on Morrowind and wins. After the war the Tribunal is left alone. Wulfharth, furious, leaves the empire think this to be the betrayal the Greybeards spoke of.

After Wulfharth ( the stormcrown [possibly the sole wielder of thu'um] of Hjalti) abandoned the empire, small rebellions occur throughout the empire. Tiber Septim found the Numidium, Arctus studied the machine and learned the Underking's place in the war, while Hjalti realized  the Numidium was how he would conquer the elves. Without Lorkhan's heart they needed something in place of it. He somehow contacts Ysmir Wulfharth the Underking telling  him they will kill the tribunal and take their power(funny how one trio wants to take the god hood of another trio, right?). However, it is really a plan Arctus set in motion to take his soul(Shor/Lorkhan's soul) to make the mantella, a power source for the Numidium in place of Lorkhan's heart. When Wulfharth arrived  he was ambushed and nearly killed by Imperial agents. Arctus was there and used a soulgem. As Wulfarth was about to die he used his last breath to shout a hole through Arctus' chest before he becomes dust again(a new soul or a partial soul?). They both die and it isn't known who's soul is in the gem the Underking/Zurin Arctus also known as Tiber Septim or the Underking/Ysmir Wulfarth also known as General Talos Stormcrown. Since they killed each other regardless, a soul was taken it could've been a combination of both Wulfarth and Arctus seeing as they are both attributed to being the Underking(Enantiomorph). Hjalti waltzed in right after with everyone dead and took the mantella that had the underking's(???) soul in it

Basically to make it a little easier to explain Tiber Septim betrayed Ysmir Wulfharth when he/they planned to take Ysmir's soul for the Numidium. Hjalti betrayed Arctus just after he died when he claimed Arctus to have staged a failed coup for the Numidium( all the corpses were declared heroes who fought to protect Tiber, even Ysmir Wulfharth). Lastly the Underking(s) betrayed Hjalti when he/they tried to reclaim his/their soul(s) from mantella and destroying the Numidium.  So in layman's terms  they all may have betrayed each other somehow.



Hjalti Early-beard(a Breton/Nord, possibly Dragonborn, Chosen one)  + Ysmir Wulfharth (Atmoran avatar of Shor, possibly Dragonborn) =  General Talos Stormcrown who united Cyrodiil.


Hjalti Early-beard+ Zurin Arctus(The Imperial Battle mage) = Emperor Tiber Septim who united the kingdoms of man, later.


Zurin + Wulfharth = The Underking that powered the mantella for Numidium that Tiber Septim used to conquer Tamriel.

The mantella is also referred to a Tiber's heart. It could be considered the heart/soul of the Underking and Tiber Septim because Zurin Arctus was both of them and possibly a piece(if any part) of his soul  was put in the mantella.


Hjalti Early-beard+ Zurin Arctus + Wulfharth 
= Talos Stormcrown + Tiber Septim + The Underking = Apotheosed TALOS=  New and improved Lorkhan

However,  simply being an avatar is different from being the actual entity. Each of these three  avatars were able to become something new(twice, arguably thrice), apart from Lorkhan, because they were Lorkhan. That is how Talos came to be.

So Talos may not be just a trio, but two trios(yet another Enantiomorph [4 in total] if you will) of Lorkhan, that combined and took his place among the Aedra. 

At the end of the book the Underking(a wandering piece(s) of Shor/Lorkhan) was sent by Tiber to advise his grandson Pelagius which might mean  Talos sent a piece of himself to his grandson. I'd also like to end on the note that The Acturian Heresy is written by Ysmir Kingmaker. Ysmir is the title of both Hjalti and Wulfharth. Kingmaker was also a title of Wulfharth and could be a reference to Arctus who not only crowned Tiber Septim but is Tiber Septim. This could mean that The Arcurian Heresey is actually an autobiography of Talos by Talos himself.

But hey, I could totally be wrong, I'm more worried about this making sense than being correct because it's lore and lore isn't based on facts.


Edit: I forgot to add that Hjalti was the winner of the enatiomorphs and also achieved chim after this

