---
title: "Sul Saren: A Love to Challenge the Houses"
reddit: 53z6th
author: scourgicus
date: 2016-09-22T14:25:21Z
---

…Sul Saren’s father was Telvanni Kir-Andros Sul Saren, a sorcerer of some renown in the House.  A retainer of Mage-Lord Telvanni Syl Lethren in Port Telvannis, Kir-Andros had been given lands on the western side of the isle and there made the family's ancestral home.  Kalas was born in 3E 375 and quickly revealed a facility with magic; indeed, his mastery of the arts of Destruction – by the age of 15 – were unheard of.  It was foreseen that he would take his father’s place as Mage-Lord of Tel Andros, but it was not to be.

…Indoril Jassa Hleren, born in 3E 351, was a child of Mournhold.  Her parents were priests in the Tribunal Temple and it was no surprise that she followed them in her vocation.  Passionate, mystical, and gifted in the arts of Conjuration, Jassa outshone the other acolytes and quickly progressed through the Temple hierarchy, becoming a priestess at the age of her majority [adulthood, approximately at the age of 50 – editor].  Her devotion to the Lady was absolute and none could have guessed how her life would unfold…

…neither agree on the details of their first meeting, but this may be the playful humor that defines their relationship [despite the grim manner of Dunmer they are quite passionate in their love, but keep such displays private – editor].  According to Kalas he met his future wife whilst shopping for specific herbs to be used in a ritual; Jassa claims he was brought in upon a stretcher, having botched one of his experiments.  Whatever the details, it was not long before the Telvanni magister and Indoril priestess fell in love and were married in secret.

The story of their exile from Morrowind and role in the Oblivion crisis will be the subject of our next chapter…
