---
title: "The Elder Sheet Music"
reddit: 54di6q
author: tCartsba
date: 2016-09-25T03:20:34Z
---

After reading another post 

https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/54ap49i_have_this_headcanon_tes_games_themselves_are/

I realized that not everyone sees the Scrolls the same way that I do. I have followed this subreddit for awhile now, but I see very little about the Scrolls themselves  (which are the most important things in the series, considering the name). 

This ended up much longer than i expected. I'm on mobile so I don't have any backup links, so if anyone wants to post their own thoughts/proof go ahead. 
Anyways, here goes: 

- The universe is made of music. A flowing song of energy. The gods were created in this manner. Even if you don't fully believe this, regardless, the gods existed in Aetherious, forever waiting, alone. The gods had power, but that could be lost at any time. 

- Lorkhan acted as the architect, telling the other gods they needed to make something concrete. Why? Because the Song could end. His idea was simple: they needed to preserve the song, so that if it ever stopped, they would not cease. 

- Unfortunately the gods felt tricked as they created the Elder Scrolls, divine music sheets that shaped reality into Nirn. Eight gods gave everything of themselves into making these Scrolls, their bodies forming the planets. 

-Magnus was especially displeased. This realm was permanent for the moment, but it could fall apart just as easily as Aetherious. They made the Towers as passive anchors to hold it together, and the Scrolls were designed to protect this realm, but enlightenment meant either permanence, or Null. Nothing. Death, the very thing the gods wanted to avoid. So the et'ada fled with Magnus, choosing the sleeping song over the living paper of Nirn. 

- But Lorkhan was right. Even the gods were temporary, unless one could reach CHIM. The only way for that to happen was through the mortal experiment. It may take time, but CHIM has been reached ***more than once.*** Perfection is not only possible, but after an infinite amount of life cycles, probable. 

- Which is why the Scrolls are so important. The are the Songbooks of reality. They are the subconscious of the world, trying to protect itself. World-Devouring Dragon? Scrolls shows up. Invading Demon Princes? MULTIPLE Scrolls show up. 

- The Scrolls protect the fourth wall. They keep mortals from discovering that reality isn't real. The Dwemer realized this, and disappeared. Imagine the amount of divinity that just ENDED when their race vanished. This experiment is to ensure that all reality can eventually become real, or at least most of it. 

- This explains the side effects of the Scrolls. You read too much into reality? It blinds you or drives you mad before you learn the truth. After all, who are the two maddest beings in TES? Sheogorath and M'aiq. And both of them break the fourth wall with their comments, because they know the truth. Truthfully, they aren't crazy; all the mortals believing in reality are. 

Thoughts? 








