---
title: "The Sleepy Hamlets and Villages of Skyrim (Circa 3E 400)"
reddit: 54is6y
author: avakinumibus
date: 2016-09-26T03:33:54Z
---

You must not be from around these parts, eh stranger? I am Hroguth Steedborn, and you are right outside of Falkreath. Falcrenth, you say? You must have had one too many bottles of mead on the way up here. Oh, Imperial? Well, they can keep calling us whatever they like if they keep sending coin. So are you lost? Looking for a village, huh? We  got plenty of those around here, if you know where to look. 

To start, we have Riverwood, right outside of Whiterun. Nothing really ever happens there, unless you think stray wolves wanderin' up and killing livestock noteworthy. We also got an old place that used to have a settlement, called Rorik's Steading. There's never really been much out that way, ground's too poor to support crops. 

Helgen is right near the pass to Cyrodiil, but since me and my kinsman can remember, Pale Pass has been lost. I guess you Imperials have to go through the mountains the hard way? Eh, it builds character anyways. Helgen's got big walls and a strong garrison of those clanking mounted buckets you call Legionaires. 

Then there's Shor's Stone, down near Riften. There's a pretty big Ebony mine in that village there. Some say that Shor's Stone got its name from the Ebony cause it's Shor's blood, but that's just crazy talk. Anyways, they can't keep bandits away from there. Damn Riften Guard, they couldn't stop a bandit raid if the bandits were ten years old and unarmed. Milk drinkers.

Karthwasten is out near Markarth, in the Reach. Its got a Silver mine, so they've always got steady work, if that's what you're looking for. They can't keep those damn Reachmen out of there, so if you go there for work, You better watch your back. 

There used to be a village called Jallenhiem, near Dawnstar, but we haven't heard news after the Giant attack last year. I wish a giant would wander up to Falkreath, so I can introduce it to my blade. I would steer clear of Jallenhiem though, just in case the giants made it into a camp. 

Dragon Bridge is out near Solitude. There's a huge bridge. I bet you can't guess what its shaped like. A dragon? I guess you Imperials aren't as dumb as you look. Anyways, all supplies or information that enters Solitude goes through Dragon Bridge. There's not much else in Dragon Bridge, you'd be better going to visit Solitude itself.

I hope I've told you enough to get you where you're going, Imperial. Take care, and don't let the frost trolls get you. Funny Joke? No, I was being serious. Safe travels friend, farewell.


