---
title: "Bringing an End to the Kalpa"
reddit: 56hkr4
author: Commander-Gro-Badul
date: 2016-10-08T16:02:18Z
---

*By Regent Cassipia of the Scaled Court*

A Kalpa (as the old Nords called it) is the time period between the Convention of the Aedra in the Dawn and the end of Mundial time. At least that is what has been speculated by scholars who have studied old Ehlnofic, Nedic, Nordic and Yokudan texts which mention Kalpas. How accurate that theory is only the Stars know, and I am therefore very lucky to have had the opportunity to speak to our lord Malazar, the Serpent constellation. He has whispered many sectets into my ear since I became the Regent of the Scaled Court. He has explained his goals and ambitions to me, and as his most loyal follower I have been listening very closely. From him I have been granted information that I never thought that any Mortal would ever recieve. One of the things that I found to be most intriguing was what he had to say about Kalpas, for according to him he lived on Nirn in another Kalpa and survived its end by becoming one with the Stars who connect this world to Aetherius. The outer Realms of Oblivion and Aetherius are unaffected by Mundial time and by extension the Kalpas, which means that anyone could theoretically gain eternal life by simply escaping the Mundus and binding themselves to a plane of Oblivion or Aetherius. One who did such a thing would however place themselves at the mercy of the Daedra Lords or Magna-Ge who could easily banish a lesser Mortal back to Nirn. According to the Serpent the safest way to permanently bind oneself to an outer Plane is to "mantle" another being who already calls that plane home. Even though the Serpent explained the process of mantling to me in great detail I would be unable to explain it myself, as the process (or processes) is so complicated and convoluted that I fail to see how anyone could successfully go through it. The Serpent did say that is was "simpler than it sounds", but I wonder how much simpler that is.

The most interesting thing that the Serpent said to me is however that he himself has some control of the Kalpic cycle of the Mundus. He was very reluctant to giving me information concerning the specifics of his control and how he exercises it, and the information that I recieved felt very incomplete. What he said still made me wonder, however. What would happen if someone were to mantle Malazar himself and take his place as the Serpent constellation? Would such a thing be possible? If someone were to do just that, would they be able to influence the Kalpic cycle and simply "end" Kalpas? If one could do that, would it then also be possible to infuence the creation of a new Kalpa, a new Convention? If so one could make Nirn a better place for everyone, a place without suffering and pain. Perhaps even a world without death were we all live like gods. The Serpent said to me that he wished to end this Kalpa and start anew. Does he perhaps aim to influence the creation of a new Nirn and create a perfect world, or perhaps smething entirely different? I would myself never attempt to mantle the Serpent to find out, my loyalty to him is unwavering, but his words did make me think.
