---
title: "[UM] Beasts of Tamriel: The Echkin"
reddit: 57dqaj
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2016-10-14T00:44:25Z
---

&gt;#Beasts of Tamriel: The Echkin

&gt;#Eis Vuur Warden, Wayward and Contract Scholar

&gt;#Published 2E 576

**Annotation (Abnur Tharn):** This compendium of notes (written, edited, and arranged in chronological order by the author himself) goes into detail about the strange origins of the giant bats that plague Tamriel, as well as the unique subspecies that vary from province to province. It was one of the last things given to the Imperial Geographical Society by Master Warden before he took an ‘indefinite leave’ from the esteemed organization of the Empire due to the fact that he couldn’t handle…how was the way he put it? Ah, now I remember – “I’ll sooner rot in Oblivion than work with a group of idiots obliviously serving the will of a cult of Daedra-worshippers led by Mannimarco of all people. If the Society is able to remove this taint from its core and come to its senses about the true nature of the Planemeld, maybe I’ll return. Maybe.” Sigh, Eis is such a fool…I can’t believe I chatted with him once about Ayleids back when he still had a functional brain. But if there is one thing I can say about that old Argonian vampire though, he did leave in style; his associates were not pleased by the great flooding of ink in their quarters.

**Annotation (Worm Cultist):** Master Warden is hereby declared an enemy of the Worm Cult by the King of Worms himself, and excursions into the Ebonheart Pact (where he is thought to be hiding, specifically in the Murkmire region of his former home of Black Marsh) to capture him be commenced immediately.

#Chapter One: On The Origin of Echkin

For the first time in years I traveled to the northwestern province of High Rock thanks to a peculiar incident that happened while I was traversing through Eastmarch a few weeks ago. I was making my ways from Windhelm when I stopped to rest in a cave in the mountainside, only to awaken to the screeches of a swarm of giant bats. I was able to defend myself against these creatures, but now I am worried. Giant bats have seemed to be migrating all over Tamriel ¬– plaguing townsfolk in the process – and I find that concerning. After leaving a note for my current contractors so that they would know to withhold my payment, I began the trek to Daggerfall Covenant-controlled High Rock (to avoid any potential suspicion I went under the guise of an Argonian condottiere). En route I began to record all knowledge of the giant bat I had at my disposal, mainly as a small mental exercise:

*“The semi-intelligent monster known as the giant bat has plagued the province of High Rock since times immemorial. The first sightings of these creatures was reported by the Orcs, who encountered the blood-sucking fiends after they were driven out of ancient Hammerfell and into the Wrothgarian Mountains by the invading Ra Gada in the First Era. Inclined to live in natural darkness or in places where shadows accumulate, the giant bat has been one of the many thorns stuck in High Rock’s side for centuries. Smarter, faster, and more vicious than normal bats and some other creatures, but far less intelligent than the actual sapient races of Tamriel, almost everything is known about these monsters…except where they came from. Most Bretons commonly believe that these creatures originated from normal bats that were affected by the aetherial-strands emitted from the wastes of Normar, where the giant bat is seen frequently in the wilds at night, caves, and the occasional tomb or two. However, these are rumors at best and have yet to be proven.”*

When I arrived in Shornhelm – the chief city of the Rivenspire region (better known as Normar by the locales) – I instantly knew I had found the best place to begin my research. The local butcheries sold giant bat meat in abundance and hunters constantly talked about killing the creatures whenever I passed by them in the street. I decided to go see my old acquaintance Noulese Provilaise to aid me in my research. The Court-Mage of House Arouet seemed a bit more hectic (older too) than I remembered, possibly due to the alarming reports of bloodfiends in the area (as someone who has been inflicted with Serratus Peryiphim for centuries, I absolutely despise bloodfiends). She told me the Ykaloni Druids should have some answers to my questions, so I immediately set course for the Forest of Ykalon to the north.

##The Ykaloni (Breton) Origin Theory

I had heard that the Druids of Ykalon were well know for their love of nature, but when I asked them what they thought about the giant bats of the mountains they gave me look that could break a stone twice over. I was finally able to speak with one of the Déisiniach (which translates into ‘The Revolting’), who told me that the giant bats were servants of some local deity called ‘Hran of the Dale’. When I pressed them for more information about this minor god I was gruffly given *Part VII* of *Varieties of Faith in Heiröc* and pointed to this particular paragraph:

&gt;**Hran of the Dale (Night-Talker):** A very obscure god of the Ykaloni faith and worshipped by a relative few, Hran of the Dale is often thought to be one of the oldest (if not the oldest) spirit in the Breton pantheon. His domain is talking and words, and bats are sacred to him. According to druidic records he earned his place at Y’ffre’s side when he offered to teach the importance of speech to his children. In some other traditions, however, he is thought to have forced himself into the Ykaloni belief system. In the one artistic representation of him that exists (a magical statue that can be found in the wilderness near Camlorn) he is depicted as a middle-aged Breton wearing a fur cloak, a bat mask, and carrying a stave while bats fly around his face.

When I asked the Druids why bats were sacred to Hran of the Dale, I was told that Hran was merely the Manmeri aspect-name for some ancient, unknowable entity not native to Tamriel. This aspect had led a small group of his original people to the Wrothgarian Highlands, but they were driven feral by the strange magicks in the mountain range. Hran of the Dale was filled with much sadness and disgust after seeing what became of his people, and abandoned them as they became the ancestors of the modern giant bats. I was of course somewhat skeptical of this information, for I had never heard of or read about this ‘Hran’ deity before in my life. But I thanked the Déisiniach for the information she had given me, and went on my merry way. I was beginning to wonder where I was going to travel to next for my scholarly learning when I received word from Noulese – she had found someone else knowledgeable about giant bats in the city of Sentinel on the shores of the Iliac Bay. I made sure to buy some moisturizing lotion for my scales before I set my feet on the path to Hammerfell.

##The Yokudan (Redguard) Origin Theory

The tropical but arid environment of the Alik’r Desert was hot on my scales (that bottle of lotion revealed itself to be spoiled) but very moist for my brain. I entered the inn where my friend and her contact was waiting for me and sat down at their table, far too excited to order a refreshing drink. The contact was a Crown Redguard and Priestess of Tu’whacca, who had arrived here from Stros M’kai (she absolutely refused to give me her name, which frustrated me to no end). The dialogue of our meeting is supplied below in the following lines:

“Priestess, may you tell me what you know of the giant bats of High Rock?”

“Of High Rock, you say? The giant bats have plagued the Dragontail and Ogres Tooth Mountains for many generations as well, my dear Argonian. Nevertheless, yes, there is a story that harkens back all the way to my ancestors arrival here in Tamriel. When the ancient Yokudans stormed the Nedic Deathlands during the Warrior Wave it is believed a few of their gods aided in the coming of the Na-Totambu, the Yokudan royalty. One of these beings was Hoodoc, an ancient deity that is but is not one of our own. Remembered as the ‘Great Talking Spirit’, he summoned leagues of bat-men that fought alongside the Yokudan warriors.”

This information highly intrigued me, as Hoodoc struck cords of semblance with Hran of the Dale in my mind. After inquiring about this comparison with the Priestess, she raised an eyebrow.

“Hoodoc has many different personalities and forms. One is Hrahn, the God of Talks Too Much. Another is Hr’andyl, the God of Talk And Makes Others Listen. Hran of the Dale? Breton fools and their mistakes (I couldn’t help but notice Noulese stiffen at this statement) – they merely refer to Hoodoc under a different name. The Great Talking Spirit led his forces to combat the savage Goblin-ken, chasing them far into the Wrothgarian and Dragontail valleys. But when Hoodoc called for them to return they would not listen, for the bloodlust had taken full control of their minds and they had forgotten their great intelligence. This became their downfall, for the Orc-King Malooc cursed the bat-men chasing after his children and transformed them into the ancestors of the giant bats of today. Hoodoc was so sadden by this that he fled back west to Yokuda, never to return. His bats, however, continue to distress the peoples of Tamriel to this very day.”

I asked for more information on this Hoodoc figure, but the Priestess sadly informed me that was all she knew about him and that no Hoodoc Cults existed on Stros M’kai for further aid. After discussing a couple more pleasantries the Redguard woman announced that she had more important matters to intend to and departed alongside Noulese. I remained there in the inn, sitting and musing. Hoodoc, Hrahn, Hr’andyl, and Hran of the Dale were all deities strangely tied to bats, and described as foreign gods it seemed. I added these notes to my collection and set off for the one destination where I knew I could find the answers to my final questions: the Isle of Balfiera.

##The Direnni (Merish) Origin Theory

Ah, the mer of Clan Direnni. In normal times they were at least slightly arrogant in their dealings. Now with the Daggerfall Covenant banging on their doorstep they were downright irritable and hostile. I, however, have been a retainer of the Clan for years and when the door opened up the one-hundred year old mage that let me in remembered that I had taught her some advanced arithmetic when she was four.

It had taken me four weeks to travel to the Adamantine Tower due to weather complications, but I was finally able to meet with the old mystic – and my friend – Beredalmo the Signifier, who smiled when he saw me. That had been his daughter that had let me in. We sat down and discussed about the current going-ons in our lives before I asked him about the giant bats. Beredalmo laughed and asked me why I wanted to know more about them. When I replied I was interested because I was half-bat already he laughed even louder. The mystic requested that we be brought some food and as we dined he explained more things about the giant bats:

“Giant bats, hmm? First I need to educate you on their proper name, my good Eis. They are called the Echkin, for reasons I will soon disclose to you. Ask the honor-bound Redguards and they will say they were brought to Tamriel alongside their ancestors. Ask the introverted Bretons and they will say the same thing with only a few minor differentiations. Have you ever heard of the fabled isle of Yneslea, my friend?”

I shook my head no because my mouth was filled with red cake. The old mage nodded and continued on.

“Ah, but there lies the answer. Yneslea is said to be a mysterious archipelago rumored to exist far from the eastern shores of Tamriel in the Padomaic Ocean. According to popular legend, it is home to a race of elves known as the Echmer–” I narrowed my eyes when he said that, for I never heard of such a people. “–that the Akaviri, especially the Kamal, loathe. They are believed to be bat elves who hate all contact with foreigners. When the Tsaesci were defeated by Reman in the Battle of Pale Pass they told him about them from the few records they had stolen from the Kamal, along with several other islands that laid beyond the known waters. He never found their island before he died.”

I asked if the Echkin and the Echmer were connected somehow due to the phonetic similarities in their names, and Beredalmo nodded again. His voice dropped low into a whisper.

“We Direnni have kept a great number of secrets throughout the centuries, hidden here deep within our Tower. One of these is that according to the Tsaesci and the Kamal, the Echmer worship a powerful being known as HRAHNDEYL, a god that is both a mortal and a being that predates nearly all other gods. The Akaviri described him as the God of ‘Talk’, and stated he has traveled to Tamriel many times in the past. The last known of these excursions was in the First Era, when HRAHNDEYL summoned a host of his people during the Ra Gada invasion to aid Malooc and his Orcs for unknown reasons. But they were no match for the Yokudans and were driven into the Wrothgarian Mountains. HRAHNDEYL was forced to return home without his people and the Echmer that were left behind became the Echkin that plague these parts, still trying to find their way home.”

I will not lie – I was speechless at this information. Who knew that the giant bats, these Echkin, had such a controversial history similar to those of the Giants and the Dreugh. I thanked Beredalmo for all of his help, and began the long journey back home. I recorded my final thoughts on this below:

*The giant bats must be the descendants of the Echmer that were left behind in High Rock millennia ago (for reasons still uncertain) and have become depraved and feral in the centuries since due to their isolation in the western mountain ranges, becoming the modern Echkin. This deduction also explains their superior intelligence in terms of other monsters, if they had once been sapient creatures themselves.*

##In Conclusion

Not a bad job well done, if I have to say so myself. I think I might have outdone myself this time. But the presence of Echkin in Skyrim still disturbs me. I also noticed that the presence of bloodfiends was a growing problem while traversing Rivenspire. Is it possible the two are connected? I know firsthand that vampires have a strange relationship and influence over bats. Maybe…no, that can’t be. I don’t even want to think about that.

But now I am interested in a new topic of study: How can this HRAHNDEYL fellow have both Yokudan and Manmeri aspects, and why does he play different roles in each of the Echkin origin stories? Hmm…I’ll have to remember this ‘Yneslea’ for potential endeavors in the future.

#Chapter Two: On Echkin Physiology

While I frown down on the open and hostile arguments between the young authors Phrastus of Elinhir and Lady Cinnabar of Taneth, I must admit this chapter was heavily inspired by the two. I was reading their works *The Heartland of Cyrodiil* and *Subtropical Cyrodiil* while researching Daedric artifacts in Valenwood when I was called to Vvardenfell immediately by my current contractors, the Great Moot of the Ebonheart Pact.

Upon arriving on the island territory of Morrowind I met with Captain Falos Indoril, a high-ranking member of his House. As soon as I saw the giant bat head impaled on the spear beside him I instantly knew what the problem was. Having read my book Echkin of the Wrothgarian Mountains (a published tome of my earlier notes about Echkin migrations distributed throughout Tamriel), Falos knew what the bats really were and how to handle them without complaint. However, that wasn’t the reason why he requested my presence here.

“These Echkin are different Eis,” he said bluntly. “And I want to know why.”

I tilt my head to the side, questioning his statement. How in the world could they be different? Falos led me to a rather large cage which housed what seemed to be a giant bat, except it was different from any Echkin I had ever seen before. With bright red eyes, a chitinous outer shell, and an ash colored pelt I was taken aback by the creature.

“This is not an Echkin,” I stated firmly, but even I didn’t believe my own words. This was without a doubt a giant bat, just one of a variety I had never encountered before until today. According to Falos his men had encountered these Echkin when driving off a throng of cliff racers from one of their camps. As the flying beasts flew past a cave wall, a dozen giant bats flew out of the crevice and attacked them! A brutal battle for the sky soon commenced, with the Echkin emerging victorious. The beasts then turned their sights on the Dunmer below and swooped in for the kill, only to be either slain or captured by Falos and his men.

Never before had the Dark Elves encountered giant bats on Vvardenfell, not even during the times when the Dwemer still walked below the ash. But I already had a list of theories developing in my head that I wanted to put to the test. I stayed seven months on Vvardenfell, studying the cave systems and the giant bat specimen. The results of my observations are recorded below:
The Echkin in Morrowind must have been separated from the Echkin in High Rock or Skyrim (presumably the latter, due to its close proximity) due to some sort of incident in the late First Era, mostly likely underground cavern collapses, which isolated groups of the monsters from other parts of Tamriel. Eventually these Echkin migrated to Vvardenfell, where they stayed hidden in beneath the ground feeding off of insects and other creatures. Their open hostilities were probably the result of the cliff racers encroaching on what they seem to view as their territory, thus causing them to rise aboveground to attack the Morrowind natives.

(This educated guess comes from Falos’ account, where he stated that the Echkin didn’t feast on the remains of the cliff racers, instead choosing to attack his contingent. This indicates a need for regional dominance in the creatures.)

So the question on their being in Morrowind and their recent discovery is answered. But what about their bizarre appearance compared to their northern and western cousins? Well, if I understand my Tower Lore correctly, Red Mountain (as is White-Gold, as is Crystal-Like-Law, as is Falinesti, as is the Throat of the World) is located on top of one of the many joint-points of Nirn and is thus a conduit of palpable reality. These ‘Towers’ are able to conform and utilize said reality by the command of its creators or current masters. Thus, it is possible for the environment of a particular province hosting a Tower to be controlled and changed depending on the mentality of the dominant race controlling it. As Lady Cinnabar puts it in her book *Subtropical Cyrodiil*, the Heartlands under the care of the Ayleids was a jungle while it became a temperate forestland under the rule of the Nedic peoples after the Alessian Slave Rebellion.

What I’m proposing is much more intricate and is definitely something that must be expanded upon sometime in the future (probably by myself, actually): But what if the Towers are capable of not only changing flora, but fauna as well?

A good example for this would be trolls. Although all subspecies of the monster have the same regenerative ability as well as the three eyes, they differ in both appearance and mannerisms based on geographic location. In Skyrim the Frost Troll has a white pelt and a resistance to cold, preferring to dwell in the icy mountains and caves of the province away from civilized sites. In Cyrodiil the Heartland Troll has a murky greenish-black pelt and is much more openly hostile, living in caves in the hills or in the plains close to civilized areas. In Valenwood the Wood Troll has a bright greenish-brown coat to blend in with the trees, which it both lives in and uses to ambush potential prey. By applying Tower Lore to this theory, then it is quite possible to say that all the different subspecies of troll found throughout Tamriel are the result of the mystical properties of a particular provinces’ Tower.

So in my opinion the Echkin of Vvardenfell originally looked like their distant brethren in the Wrothgarian and Dragontail Mountains before migrating to the island at some unknowable time. It was here that the giant bats were caught under the influence of Red Mountain and its Chimeri masters, and overtime slowly took on the appearance they have today. It could even be worth noting that the mystical change of the Chimer into the Dunmer might have also had a powerful effect on Red Mountain, resulting in the surrounding flora and fauna changing to better suit the new appearance and habits of their cursed masters. However, I would be climbing down into the realm of speculation if I choose that route and I so hate speculation.

But now I head back towards Eastmarch, my new temporary base of operations as soon as Cyrodiil becomes safe again to visit (oh, I so hope my manor in Sutch hasn’t been destroyed). Perhaps along the way I will write down quick jots describing the habits and physiology of the other species of Echkin that live throughout Tamriel, but I feel that such a chapter would be completely unnecessary. Bats are bats of course, and their habits rarely change.
