---
title: "Tang Mo-Ho-Ho La-Ha-ugh at You-ouh"
reddit: 588zea
author: BuckneyBos
date: 2016-10-19T06:57:16Z
---

*Translation of a poorly scrawled missive. The document was reported to have been extracted from Sheogorath’s realm of the Shivering Isles. It’s authenticity is unverified, and will likely remain so...*

HO-HA-HE! To those that live in Tam-Ree-He-He, know we Tang Mo-Ho-Ho still La-Ha-ugh at you-ouh!

You-ouh stamped water-slogged on our Isles from your sh-he-he-ips long ago-Ho-Ho, and we fell over at the sight. We welcomed you-ouh wet metal and leather turtles with La-Ha-ughs, claps, and dance.

You-uh called us Brave, and MA-HA-AD!?

Perhaps you-ouh found us brave because we Smile and La-Ha-ugh in the faces of our enem-He-He-ies? No doubt you-ouh were impressed by our battle-mockeries? To imitate the fighting styles of the oppo-Ho-nent and make fun of their absurdity. It drives them Ma-Ha-Ad and weakens their gu-Ha-rds, as we poke Ho-Ho-les in their styles and show its fl-Ha-ws with humor.

Or was it our Giggles-magics? How we sho-Ho-wed you-ouh that wounds need not be He-He-ealed, only La-Ha-ughed off until they pe-He-led away from flesh and fur.

But you-ouh still don’t understand why we La-Ha-ugh? At you-ouh? At the Sna-EE-EE-kes? At the World?

I’ll tell you-ouh, we Monk-folk ARE MA-HA-AD! And Pr-Ha-oud of it! 

We were such when Sheogor-Ho-Ho first pe-He-led our Isles from his tree befor his First Gr-He-He-ing. He stashed us, his best Chuckles, in the Sea-He for safe keeping. 

Azur-Ha-Ha giggled when she seen our tails, so showed us how to stay. 

He-He-ircine then hunted us, but we learned how to stand upright and he blessed us when he se-He-n that we too can La-Ha-ugh in bloodlust. 

So HO-HA-HE became our mantr-Ha’s as we swing from vines of these 3 great Tre-He-Hes. 

HO for the first joker, HA for our new life, HE for strength against those that would hunt us. We La-Ha-ugh showing our Lo-Ho-rds how funny the world is, how funny YOU-ouh are. There's a br-He-ed of us for every joke!

Come back to our Isles and learn how to La-Ha-ugh!

La-Ha-ughter is magic, La-Ha-ughter is power, learn to La-Ha-ugh at yourself as you La-Ha-ugh at your enemies. 

Walk like them until you-uh make them fall down, then La-Ha-ugh some more as you-uh bash them dead with a Rock! 

Come La-Ha-ugh with us, the Tang Mo-Ho-Howelcome you-ouh still!

