---
title: "Contract for the Company of Mauloch's Kin, 4E 5."
reddit: 5921ze
author: Xuial
date: 2016-10-24T01:43:35Z
---

Hereafter, the undersigned Urzob Mogdum agrees to provide the following described services to Magister Neloth in the form of the provision of Mauloch’s Kin. Hereafter, the undersigned Magister Neloth agrees to provide the following described goods and payment to Urzob Mogum. 

I.i: Urzog Mogdum will make available the services of Mauloch’s Kind (hereafter, “the Company”) for not less than twelve Cyrodiil calendar months. Services may include, but are not limited to, military actions on and around the continent of Tamriel, as per the wishes of Magister Neloth. Magister Neloth is hereby expressly prohibited from requesting that the Company engage in any action, military or otherwise, off of Tamriel. 

I.ii: Military actions are here defined following the fourth edition (3E 178) of Turena Roscius’s Brief Manual of Legal Compacts in Treaty Arrangements, volume four, heading eighty-three: “engaging in a blockade, siege, raid, defense, or battle, and including all activities leading up to and surrounding the aforementioned activities.” 

I.iii: Urzog Mogdum will provide for military service the entirety of the Company, which presently consists of 526 Orsimer soldiers of the Trinimac class and 194 Orsimer soldiers of the Mauloch class. 

I.iv: Urzog Mogdum and the Company shall only accept orders from the person of Magister Neloth or marked by his signet. 

II.i: Magister Neloth shall provide Urzob Mogdum with the payment of 125,000 imperially-minted septims each month for the duration of the contract. Payment is to be made promptly at the beginning of each month. 

II.ii: Magister Neloth shall make reasonable attempts to safeguard the person and property of Urzob Mogdum and the Company. Failure permits Urzob Mogdum complete cancellation rights of the contract. 

II.iii: Urzob Mogdum and the Company are entitled to one tenth the value of all plunder taken for the duration of the contract. 

II.iv: Magister Neloth shall provide the necessary transport, equipment, and materials for stercomancy, should they be needed. Magister Neloth shall also provide the transportation for the Company’s altar of Mauloch and the wagons described by Urzob Mogdum as carrying “the bowels of Boethiah”.

II.v: Magister Neloth will provide a fee to cover the transportation costs from Farrun. This amounts to 175,000 imperially-minted septims. 

Sealed in wax and blood 4 Rain’s Hand 4E 5, may the party in violation of this contract suffer the Bloody Curse.

