---
title: "This Is The Way The World Starts"
reddit: 59hf1t
author: docclox
date: 2016-10-26T13:10:26Z
---

First of all there is Nothing. Then the Nothing splits in two and both the bits are gods.

Anu is generally regarded as the nice guy of the two; I have no idea why. Anu came into existence with a crippling hangover and he needs everything to be still. So stop what you're doing: Don't move, don't talk, don't even breathe. If you have to think, try and do it quietly. Change of any sort causes Anu actual physical pain, and all he wants is for everything to stay the same forever.

That is unfortunate because the other God, Padhome, is a hyperactive seven year old with ADD, a permanent sugar rush and a chronic case of the fidgets and the giggles. Keeping still would probably hurt Padhome just as much as movement hurts Anu, but we'll never know because Padhome has never tried it because it's very, very BORING!

Obviously, these two need to spend a lot less time together. Sadly that is not possible. The two of them together constitute everything that is. Where Anu is not, there you find Padhome and vice versa. Even the original Nothing isn't around any more, not that it would help if it was.

Out of the intolerable comes the impossible, and and Aka is born. Aka is a compromise. If things have to change, maybe the change can be made bearable if it happens in an orderly manner. Perhaps sequence and repetition and pattern can make the change seem still and the stillness yet to change, and thereby satisfy both Anu and Padhome.

And so Aka becomes the first musician, taking the endless noise of Padhome and arranging it into pleasing sequences. And that's where the story should have ended, with Aka as the embodiment of conciliation, soothing Anu with his Harmonies while keeping Padhome entertained with the cleverness of the arrangement. But it wasn't that simple.

Aka was the child of Anu and Padhome, but he didn't partake equally of their natures. Aka was created to be helpful and Anu's dreadful pain demanded his attention more than Padhome's constant giggling, and so Aka came to favour Anu over Padhome. This is a problem because the universe is strictly a Zero-Sum Game at this point, and when you put all the pieces back in the box, it all has to fit back into the original Nothing.

And so Lorkhan is born to balance out Aka. If Aka was born to be helpful, Lorkhan is born to help himself. If Aka is busy and industrious and diligent, then Lorkhan is like some wiseass teenager, hanging out on the street corner with feet that are just slightly too big for his boots and a head that is bursting with impossible dreams. 

Lorkhan doesn't yet know what he wants out of life, but he's pretty sure it doesn't involve working his ass off trying to please a grumpy old man and a spoiled brat. He is *so* out of there. Although that turns out not to be so easy. Creation still isn't very big at this point, and all roads lead back to the centre and the mildly entertaining spectacle of Aka endlessly chasing his own tail.

Like Aka, Lorkhan partakes of the natures of both Anu and Padhome, and while he favours Padhome in many things, he has Anu's fixity of purpose. So he keeps trying to leave and one day he gets to a place where, if he can't actually leave creation, he can at least see over the edge of it. There's nothing out there, but it's a different sort of nothing, and he instinctively knows that if he could get out there, he could set up in business for himself. He's had enough of the of the grumbling from Upstairs and the mad whirling dragon-dance. Lorkhan dreams of a universe where he can just Chill, and where you have to demonstrate a reasonable level of Cool before they'll let you in the door.

Only the Edge of Everything is far away and way up high, and try as he might, Lorkhan just can't seem to reach it. What he really needs is a boost up there. And he has an idea how he might persuade Aka to supply it...

[Continued In Part 2](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/59ndi6/this_is_the_way_the_world_starts_part_2/)

 
