---
title: "The Slaying of Dir-Kamal, King of the False Men"
reddit: 5a387y
author: HamSandLich
date: 2016-10-29T23:13:07Z
---

In those days, the people of Skyrim had been brutalized by the False Men of Akavir, the forces of Dir-Kamal. Enraged, the Children of Kyne rallied their forces and bathed in the wound-water of the Akaviri, broke their thin blades on their shields and axes, and turned the settlements and children of the invaders into ash and meat. 

There was Jorunn, son of Mabjaarn, the Skald-Prince, Second-of-Three, The Wandering Son of Windhelm, who had come home to ruin. In his grief, he sought the aid of the Greybeards at High Hrothgar, his tears frozen on his cheeks. The Disciples of the Windcaller, for reasons known only to themselves, the Gods, and perhaps the Clevermen, SPOKE and their Words became TRUTH. The TRUTH they SPOKE was thus: *"Wulfharth the Ash King is risen, he aids thee, and all the Blood of Kyne."* And indeed, Ysmir, the Dragon of The North, the Underking had risen to speak the TRUTH of death against the LIES of the False Men. And so, Ysmir gathered to himself a great host to silence the Breath of the Akaviri.

They chased Dir-Kamal and his False Men into Morrowind, land of the Dark Elves, whose souls were as grey as the ash that fell from their skies. Finding even the Dark Elves better than the False Men, the Sons and Daughters of Skyrim made common cause with the Dunmer against the Akaviri. In the land of the Red Mountain, where Shor's Heart beats eternal and never, they fell upon the False Men, flaying armor from skin, flesh from bone, TIME from spans. 

There was Ayem-called-Almalexia, Widow of Moon-and-Star, God-Queen of Morrowind, who helped deliver Wulfharth during his birth from the ashes of Vvardenfell, after he had rallied the swords of Skyrim when the Greybeards SPOKE him back to life atop the Throat of the World (for the Children of Kyne know that "before" and "after" are just LIES that the elves and the soft headed Nedes repeated so much that they fooled themselves into thinking they were truth). Though Wulfharth marked her ancient foe alongside Vehk the Poet-God and Seht the God-Hermit, he did not strike against her, for Almalexia had a proven worthy and cunning enemy in the Kalpa, and had earned the Underking's respect. Together, they directed their armies against the False Men.

To the surprise of all, except the Ash-King and the Elf-Queen, the scaled folk of Argonia, who worship the Empty Outside, and like the Nords, know "before" and "after" are LIES, came to the aid of the Nords and Dunmer. Though the elves had committed great evils against the Argonians, the Shellbacks turned their blades on the False Men, for the lizard folk do not think the same way as Man and Elf.

In a battle-rage, brought on by grief and wound-water, Prince Jorunn smashed into the Akaviri camp and slew the False-Men in scores, ceasing only when he had extinguished the line of the False Man who had slain his mother and sister. Though many of the False Men had been killed, Dir-Kamal and his retinue had escaped the cleansing of the camp, fleeing into the wastes.

The Ash-King and the Elf-Queen hunted down the Demon King of Akavir and fell upon him and his family. Dir-Kamal's guard, who had learned to turn their flesh to flame and in their conceit thought themselves DOV, leapt to defend their fell-blooded ruler. Ysmir, who was truly DOV, SHOUTED and snuffed out their flame with a Voice that was TRUTH, for the flesh of DOV is TIME not fire. Almalexia came forward, and in her hand was Hopesfire, curved blade forged by the Deep Folk before they UnBecame. The God-Queen then slew the remaining guards, cutting away their armor and flesh and TIME. At last stood Dir-Kamal and his line. Their thin blades were no match for the Ash-King and Elf-Queen, for the False Men's blades were edged with LIES and LIES are no match against TRUTH. Dir-Kamal, King of The Akaviri, died gasping on Ysmir's and Almalexia's blades. And Ysmir SPOKE aloud the name and span of the Demon King and pronounced it FALSE, and All-That-Is acknowledged Ysmir's Words as TRUTH.

With their king slain, the heart went out of the False Men, and the Nords and the Dunmer and the Saxhleel drove them into the sea to drown in blood and tears.
