---
title: "Zurin Arctus begat by Snake-Men, News at Eleven"
reddit: 5aqvau
author: TheOutOfWorld
date: 2016-11-02T16:25:30Z
---

Wild curiosity brought me to do some research on the Tsaesci of Akavir and their various activities in Tamriel beyond the pattern of invasion, which soon led me to Reman Cyrodiil, the Dragonguard, the Akaviri Potentates and the Remanada. Reading some of these lore bits, especially the section on the Remanada between Michael Kirkbride and /u/ladynerevar brought to mind other pieces of lore that mentioned Zurin Arctus, the Imperial Battlemage who played a vital role in Tiber Septim's ascension to the Ruby Throne and later godhood.

So, let's start with the historic accounts of the Tsaesci themselves and work our way up from there. First and foremost, examine this chapter of the [Remanada](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Remanada):

**Chapter 2: THE CHEVALIER RENALD, BLADE OF THE PIG**

&gt;*And in the days of interregnum, the Chim-el Adabal was lost again amid the petty wars of gone-heathen kings. West and east knew no union then and all the lands outside of them saw Cyrodiil as a nest of snakemen and snakes. And for four more hundreds of years did the seat of Reman stay sundered, with only the machinations of a group of loyal knights keeping all its borders from throwing wide.*

&gt;*These loyal knights did go by no name then, but were known by their eastern swords and painted eyes, and it was whispered that they were descended from the bodyguard of old Reman. One of their number, called the Chevalier Renald, discovered the prowess of Cuhlecain and then supported him towards the throne. Only later would it be revealed that Renald did this thing to come closer to Talos, anon Stormcrown, the glorious yet-emperor Tiber Septim; only later still, that he was under instruction by a pig.*

&gt;*Long glory was wife to the all the knights of the dragon-banner, who knew no other and were brothers before beyond many seas and now were brothers under the law named the blade-surrender of Pale Pass. And having vampire blood these brother-knights lived for ages through and past Reman and then kept guard over his ward, the coiled king, Versidue-Shaie. The snake-captain Vershu became Renald became the protector of the northern west when the black dart was hooked into Savirien-Chorak.
Here torn pages indicate that the rest of this ancient book has been lost.*

Now, in this section an account is established of the members of the Akaviri Dragonguard in the years of the [Interregnum](http://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Interregnum), the break between the end of the Second Empire of Reman Cyrodiil and the rise of the Third Empire of Tiber Septim. For those not in the know, this period began when the last of the Akaviri Potentates had died and caused the Empire to crumble into wars and strife. The Empire had at this point become limited to the province of Cyrodiil itself, while the other provinces thought of it as a 'nest of snakemen and snakes.' While this is no doubt caused by the presence of the Tsaesci in the heartland, this phrase may lend itself to describe Cyrodiil as a land full of traitors and underhanded schemers, whom are also considered snakes of a sort. But I digress.

The [Dragonguard](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Blades#Dragonguard) had been officially disbanded after the death of Emperor Reman III in 1E 2920 at the hands of a Morag Tong assassin, but they were reorganized as an order of espionage specialists to preserve the interests of the Akaviri Potentates with stealth and subversion. Again, snakemen and snakes. The now-nameless order that was no longer the Dragonguard but not yet the Blades (as they were titled under Tiber Septim in the Third Empire) secretly kept the borders of Cyrodiil from being thrown wide open to invasion and other foreign threats for a time. 

The members of the Dragonguard are established as having the vampiric blood of the Tsaesci that preserved their longevity and allowed them to watch over Cyrodiil for somewhere in the ballpark of 200+ years. One very important figure is brought to light here, and his name is Snake-Captain Vershu AKA Chevalier Renald. 

For this next part, let's look back to the Remanada section of the Fireside Chats - a snippet of the conversion between Darya and Kirkbride:

*M: Right, anyway, snakemen in Cyrodiil and I knew they would become, some of them, these Blade things, so I decided to just up and suddenly give them French names, like outta the blue. You'll notice that the Remanada and the Shonni-etta are very different, and the Chevalier Renald point is where they spilt. All of a sudden we've got this a guy fucking a hill - which is fun - he impregnates the world and the other knights, they get the fuck out of there. Except the blind dude. Some of them just go home and don't say anything. It was already in my mind at that point that these guys were immortal vampire snakemen that fed on language. I gotta admit it’s probaly really not that odd that nobody’s brought this name thing up. Because it’s just a throwaway line, really - all of a sudden one of the knights - he went by no name at first - he doesn't even have a name, but all of a sudden he's got a fucking name and it’s French. He just fucking ate language and decided “I'm a French motherfucker out of like Malory. You wanted me to be a knight and here I am and I’ma look awesome.” I'm saying it right there [in the text], he's got vampire blood, but there's [laughs] like absolutely nothing about a pig in the fragment.*

*D: I figured it was supposed to end before we got to the pig.*

*M: Nah. Well, no, yeah, you’re right. Suddenly no name becomes Snake Captain Versidue-Shaie becomes 'Renald.'*

The Tsaesci are not only vampiric in nature, but in concept they are immortal. Maybe. While one might chalk up their description as vampires to a tendency to consume blood instead of actual vampirism, they indeed do have the extended lifespan expected of vampires. Their diet is even more bizarre; the Tsaesci can consume language, which in turn allows them to change their shape into that of different races. I presume this ability changes them into whatever culture the language they devour is sourced from, but that's just speculation on my part. The moral of the story is a nameless Tsaesci became Snake-Captain Vershu and then became Chevalier Renald (Kirkbride calls Vershu Versidue-Shaie, the first Potentate himself. Is this inconsistency between his reported assassination by the Morag Tong the result of a change from Kirkbride's original concept, or did Shaie stop being Shaie and go back to being Renald instead?)

Renald became 'protector of the northern west when the black dart was hooked into Savirien-Chorak,' by which I assume is meant his jurisdiction included the Northwestern reaches of Cyrodiil when the Morag Tong (that's the black dart in this equation) assassinated the last of the Akaviri Potentates, Savirien-Chorak. But wait! There's an important detail I glossed over back in the Remanada:

&gt;*One of their number, called the Chevalier Renald, discovered the prowess of Cuhlecain and then supported him towards the throne. Only later would it be revealed that Renald did this thing to come closer to Talos, anon Stormcrown, the glorious yet-emperor Tiber Septim*

This guy right here, Cuhlecain, gets mentioned alongside Tiber Septim. Not long before the Interregnum ended, Snake Captain Veshu/Chevalier Renald discovered Cuhlecain Sifr (Emperor Zero) in his campaigns to reclaim the heartland of Cyrodiil. He did this to get closer to Tiber Septim AKA Cuhlecain's general Hjalti Early-Beard. Now if we look to a relatively recent piece of work from [this reworking](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/4bdpnn/betrayal/) of sorts of the [Arcturian Heresy](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Arcturian_Heresy), we see that Cuhlecain was betrayed by Hjalti to seize his Dragon Blood as part of his plan to claim the Ruby Throne for himself. The below section describes Hjalti's recruitment into Cuhlecain's forces:

&gt;*When Cuhlecain ascended the throne after his father’s death in 2E 848, he had already undertaken several endeavors that would ensure his conquest of the Heartlands would be successful (one of these – the reacquisition of Falk’reth by Whiterun once he was crowned Emperor – weighed heavily on his heart and caused his royal advisors a great deal of unrest). However, his greatest decision – and greatest mistake – was the admittance of Hjalti Early-Beard (the manmeri demon who would one day become the great liar Tiber Septim) into his service. The Breton freelancer had been the first to hear Sifr’s cry for a talented warrior to lead his troops into battle, and had been the last to arrive in Colovia amongst the fifty men and women who came – his armor blackened with soot from the Alcairen Riots and his sword rusted red from the blood of the men he had slain. As per Falk’rethean tradition, Cuhlecain made the candidates fight one another for the honor to be named his general…and was surprised when Early-Beard not only defeated, but executed, each and every one of them in quick succession. When Sifr looked into that young orphan’s eyes he saw a fire that both enticed and frightened him – he knew that this Breton would go on to do great and terrible things – and discussed with his advisors what he should do with him. Concerned with this strange mongrel, who fitted the description of Lady Cassandra’s prophecy of old, the majority of Cuhlecain’s councilors wished to either send Hjalti away or kill him. But Chevalier Renald, the King’s dragonknight Man-At-Arms, saw potential in the manmer before them and swayed Cuhlecain to accept him as his general, agreeing to watch over him closely lest Renald be executed himself if his charge attempted to betray the king. Now with a capable military commander, Sifr began his Western Conquests immediately, and in only a few years the entirety of the Colovian Estates was consolidated under his rule thanks to the brutal yet cunning tactics of his new general and man-at-arms.*

But now things start to screwy. Check out the next section directly following the above:

&gt;*Striving to gain the approval of both Skyrim and Altbal so he could gain additional support in his eminent invasion of the Eastern Heartlands, Cuhlecain sent his true most valuable warriors to aid in the removal of the Witchmen from the Western Reach in 2E 852. It was during this long trek to Old Hroldan that Hjalti came under the influence of the ash-demon from the Underworld that called itself the Underking, who planted the first seeds of treason and greed in the Breton’s heart. Manifesting itself in the form of a storm that covered the general, the Underking taught Hjalti blasphemous tongue magicks that he used to break down the walls of the city, allowing his forces to pour in on the unprepared Witchmen and win a decisive victory. Renald was killed (or murdered by his charge, as some Cuhl historians say) during the battle, but the King gained a new advisor in the form of Zurin Arctus, a young Nibenese battlemage that the Witchmen had enslaved before his rescue by General “Talos Stormcrown” (as the northern men had taken to calling Hjalti, due to their unholy comparison of his demon-tongue with their much revered Voice). Cuhlecain’s advisors were highly suspicious of this Arctus, for his name was nonexistent in every official battlemage document in their possession, which caused them to believe he was an agent of Hjalti, as the two behaved like old friends despite meeting for the first time during the battle. Sifr was too worried about this situation, but his mind was more focused on his campaign than anything else. In order to pacify and secure an alliance with the Witchmen he married Medea (the daughter of the most dominant Reach tribe) three months after the battle for political reasons, but in due time the two grew to love each other in due time.*

Let's reflect a bit on the historical context of this event. This is the Battle of Old Hrol'dan, back in the days when it was a full-fledged city. This military conflict was the springboard for Hjalti Early-Beard's rise to popularity as an invincible hero because this is when he started making use of the Voice (Thu'um, Storm Voice, etc.) lent to him by Wulfarth Ash-King (who manifests as the eponymous Stormcrown over his head) as he shouted the Reachmen from the walls and reclaimed Hrol'dan (see the Arcturian Heresy for more details).

Chevalier Renald was allegedly killed in the Battle of Old Hrol'dan, though there is suspicion he was murdered by Hjalti. Given the source of Betrayal is heavily painted by pro-Cuhlecain and anti-Tiber propaganda and flavored by historical revision, it's very possible that Renald didn't really die in the conflict and simply went missing. Or maybe he did die but at the same time didn't - note the death of Snake Captain Vershu/Potentate Versidue-Shaie happening yet Chevalier Renald continues to live on after the death of his old forms. Perhaps it is his name that dies after he abandons it, or do the names become individual figures of their own? Knowing the strange power of myth and legend on Nirn, the narrative convention of 'I don't use that name anymore, so that man is dead' could be adopted in a literal sense.

In the very same battle that Chevalier Renald dies, this Nibenese Battlemage shows up. That's Zurin Arctus, who would later become Tiber Septim's personal Imperial Battlemage and right-hand man. Note how he becomes very, *very* close to Tiber Septim later on, which is in line with Renald's objective of getting closer to Tiber. 

Cuhlecain and his advisors immediately become suspicious of Zurin Arctus; the guy claimed to be an Battlemage, but existing documents in the possession of Cuhlecain show nobody by the name Zurin Arctus has existed in the ranks of Cyrodiil's Battlemages prior to this point. What's more worrying to the anti-Tiber camp is that this Arctus motherfetcher that nobody has ever seen or heard of before is acting like he's an old friend of Hjalti despite them meeting for the first time while Cuhlecain's army was combating the Reachmen of Old Hrol'dan. 

So here's my theory: Zurin Arctus is Chevalier Renald is Versidue-Shaie is Snake Captain Vershu. Renald devoured a language and gained a new form (most likely during the Battle of Old Hrol'dan), which was Zurin Arctus. He cast off the old name of Chevalier Renald, who died while Zurin lived on just as Renald had done with the name Versidue-Shaie. 

Now that I think about it, 'casting off the name' is a much better analogy. After all, the Tsaesci are snakes, and don't snakes shed old skins to renew themselves? Nameskin might be a good way to describe the concept. The Tsaesci-eaten name doesn't stop being a person, but it stops being the 'prime skin' worn by the eater, I think.
