---
title: "Forest Law of Whiterun"
reddit: 5crj37
author: veloticy
date: 2016-11-13T19:22:23Z
---

**Forenote:**

*The following mandate was discovered by Proventus Avenicci, while browsing through Whiterun’s historical archives in search of information about the return of Dragons, and is believed to be dated to around 1E410. The author is unknown but believed to be the acting Steward to Olaf One-Eye. The document contains annotations from previous Whiterun officials which will be contained in the Afternote.*

*****

By decree of Jarl Olaf One-Eye, Champion of Kyne, Vanquisher of Numinex &amp; Hero of Mount Athor*[1]*, the following proclamations hath hereby been put into effect &amp; consequents all those in the esteem’d holde of Whiterun.

All lands survey’d east of the River Hjaal, &amp; west of the White River*[2]* hath henceforthe been claim’d as the Jarl’s sovereign hunting ground. Furthermore, all vert and venison of the predispos’d locations are hereafter deem’d property of the Jarl. The effect’d area shall hereby be plac’d in a state of Forest Law*[3]*:

1. **Purpresture**: any free-man*[4]* accus’d of enclosing or erecting property on land claim’d by the Jarl shalt endure a trial by Ordeal of the Jarl’s choice.

2. **Assarment**: any free-man accus’d of attempt to clear trees or clear shrubs shalt result in the loss of the hand that fell the tree*[5]*.

3. **Agistment**: any free-man which owns property within the forest shalt bear the right to pasture cattle in exchange for a tithe of no less than one-fifth of the earnings for each cattle.

4. **Estovers**: any free-man which owns property within the forest shalt bear the right to collect wood in exchange for a tithe of one goat, swine, or cattle.

5. **Turbary**: any free-man which owns property within the forest shalt bear the right to cut turf in exchange for a tithe of twenty vrage*[6]*.

6. **Chase &amp; Warren**: any free-man of the holde shalt bear the right to chase &amp; warren the venison in exchange for a tithe of fifty vrage*[7]*.

7. **Trespass**: any free-man accus’d of trespassing on the venison (including wolf, hare, deer, elk, pheasant, duck, goose, &amp; fox) without leave shalt endure a trial by Ordeal of the Jarl’s choice.

8. **Disafforestation**: any free-man shalt bear the right to purchase a purlieus at the price of two hundred vrage per burgage*[8]*.

9. **Thaumaturgy**: any use of magick*[9]* within the confines of the royal forest shalt result in the loss of the hand that cast the spell.

10. **Chattel**: any free-man accus’d of the use of a hunting dog on land claim’d by the Jarl shalt endure a flogging. All dogs within the royal forest henceforthe must be declaw’d*[10]*.

11. **Estuary**: any free-man shalt bear the right to catch no more than five salmon per day in exchange for a daily tithe of fifteen vrage.

12. **Arms**: no free-man shalt be allow’d to possess armaments within the confines of the royal forest, save those whom hath paid the tithe of Chase &amp; Warren.

13. **Arcus**: any man accus’d of the use of sword, axe or other skirmishing armaments for the purpose of Chase &amp; Warren shalt endure a week in the stocks.

Furthermore, leave to trespass on the venison shall be given to all free-men above the age of thirteen each Loredas, withal of paying the recent mandatory tithe of trespass*[11]*. 

*********************

**Afternote:**

+ [1] *It was fairly common for Nord Jarls of old to adopt titles (whether self proclaimed or not) to further their legitimacy as rulers and warriors.*

+ [2] *It should be noted that the Hold boundaries were much different in 1E. Whiterun was assumed to encompass large amounts of what we now know as Falkreath and Hjaalmarch Holds.*

+ [3] *It should be noted that after Forest Law went into effect in Whiterun, other Holds adopted variations of the proclamations as their own.*

+ [4] *Free-man is assumed to refer to any man owning property in one of the Holds.*

+ [5] *It should be noted that punishments in the Holds of old were very severe, and because of this, crime was much less abundant than in 4E.*

+ [6] *It is estimated that five vrage is equal to roughly the weight in gold of one septim. Vrage’s were coined by King Vrage, or Vrage the Gifted, in an attempt to further legitimize his rule over the First Nord Empire after succeeding his brother.*

+ [7] *The Jarl realized that abridging his rights in the royal forests could provide a useful source of income. Therefore, any Noblemen or Friends of the Jarl were granted the rights of Chase and Warren in exchange for a daily tithe.*

+ [8] *A burgage was a plot of land equal a square area with the length of ten paces.*

+ [9] *The laws of Thaumaturgy and Arcus are believed to have originated from a belief of fair chase- that hunting with anything other a bow, knife, or spear, was unsportsmanlike and frowned upon.*

+ [10] *The only dogs allowed in the confines of the royal forests were those with the purpose of guarding, aside from hounds owned by the Jarl himself.*

+ [11] *Once Olaf One-Eye was named High King of Skyrim, Loredas had been set aside as a day of hunting in all Holds. However, due to the high density of Hunters, incidents of cross-fire were very common and this clause was later revoked.*

