---
title: "Landfall Minus One (Part 2)"
reddit: 5d288f
author: docclox
date: 2016-11-15T12:26:20Z
---

&gt; *From: Cariques (Joconard.Cariques@techsupport.temple.moth)*
&gt;
&gt; *To: RosewingD (Dairdel.Rosewing@intel.eldercouncil.tam)*
&gt;
&gt; *By secret glyph: dreamsleeve transmission*
&gt;
&gt; *Security Protocols: Mothchimerical*
&gt;
&gt; *Authorization String: Moth upside your head*
&gt;
&gt; *Transcript Follows:*

Cariques: So how was the meeting?

RosewingD: Classified, same as always. And will you stop spoofing Sphinxmoth protocols?

Cariques: Hey, I needed to talk to you. They've got me blocked when I try to get through normally.

RosewingD: Well, don't come crying to me if the Novo Penitus Oculatus come knocking on your door one night. 

Cariques: We should all live that long. You ready to listen now?

RosewingD: Is this about the Dwemer? They're the skin of Numidium. This isn't even controversial.

Cariques: *Some* of them are the skin of Numidium. Check Mage Anulam's references:

&gt; *Inclusion: Skeleton Man's Interview*
&gt;
&gt; *Xal, a Human Maruhkati, Port Telvanis:*
&gt;
&gt; *...*
&gt;
&gt; *Kagrenac was devoted to his people, and the Dwarves, despite what you may have read, were a pious lot-he would not have sacrificed so many of their golden souls to create Anumidum's metal body if it were all in the name of grand theater.*

RosewingD: Yeah? So?

Cariques: Well, setting aside the question of what a Human Maruhkati was doing hiding out in Port Telvanis of all places...

RosewingD: Jacko, we've been over and over that.

Cariques: "... would not have sacrificed so many of their golden souls". Notice it doesn't say "all of their golden souls"

RosewingD: It doesn't say "some" either. This is a stretch, even by your standards, Cariques.

Cariques: He sacrificed those souls so he could then do something else. There's a sequence there that's being ignored.

RosewingD: Which is what I should be doing to you, clearly.

Cariques: Don't you get it? If Kagrenac is around after Numidium is skinned, that means the Skinning wasn't the event that caused the Dwemer to disappear.

RosewingD: So, since you're going to tell me anyway: where did they go?

Cariques: Everywhere!

RosewingD: Oh, of course! Look, there's one hiding under my desk! How did I ever miss that?

Cariques: Well, not *here*, everywhere, obviously.

RosewingD: Oh, obviously.

Cariques: I mean everywhere *else*.

RosewingD: All right. I'm going to go out on a limb here and assume that despite all evidence to the contrary, you are not in fact completely barking mad. Now start from the beginning and lay this out so I can understand it.

Cariques: OK, good. So, you have to remember that the Dwemer used to practice small scale decreation as a hobby, right?

RosewingD: Most scholars I know seem to prefer the term "research technique".

Cariques: Yeah, yeah, whatever. The point about that is ... Sheor's Balls! Rosey, I gotta bounce. Talk to you soon.

RosewingD: Jacko...

+++END TRANSMISSION+++
