---
title: "A Journeyman's Guide to Scrollcraft"
reddit: 5dp3c5
author: Echlesiarchy
date: 2016-11-18T21:50:50Z
---

Scrolls are powerful tools that grant the power of magic to even the most unlearned. They are commonplace in the arsenal of any adventurer, and allow practice in spells that are too powerful for a novice to cast on their own.

**Materials**

-At least 1 hand of fine vellum. I would recommend importing it from either Skyrim or Valenwood, thought any parchment will do in a pinch.

-A filled soul gem, sized in proportion to the magnitude of the spell to be imbued upon the parchment.

-Ink. While plain ink will hold the enchantment, I recommend using an ink infused with either elemental salts for destruction spells, or finely crushed soul gems for other enchantments. Feel free to experiment with different alchemical infusions.

**Preparation**
Before imbuing the scroll with energy, one must create a runic diagram uing either [Shalidor's Alphabet](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Magic_Script_Alphabet) or [the Daedric Script.](http://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Daedric_Alphabet) It's imperative that the diagram is able to contain and maintain a stable spell matrix, otherwise the scroll will either be volatile or completely inert. One should also be familiar with general magical theory, and have full mastery over the spell they wish to imbue upon the scroll.

**Creation**
Scrollcraft, with the proper material, can be done anywhere. It is highly recommended that novices to the craft use an enchanting table to help control and refine their work. The final steps in creating a scroll rely on the soul gem and alchemical ink to determine the magnitude and effectiveness of the spell. The process of imbuing the scroll with energy is nearly identical to enchanting. The mage must draw the energy out of the soul gem and redirect it upon the scroll. As the soul is drawn out of the soul gem, the gem will collapse in on itself and turn to dust, unless perhaps you wield Azura's Star, which is laughable at best.
Once the scroll has sufficient magical power it should be sealed with wax in order to prevent magicka from leaking out, as it occasionally may when a scroll is left open. At this point the scroll is ready for use. Anyone, mage or commoner may break the seal, place their hand upon the diagram and transfer the energy into their hands. It should be noted that mages will be able to make more effective use of scrolls, due to their experience in the arcane arts.

Edit: Formatting errors
