---
title: "[LDZ] Implications of Ghost Choir Personalities"
reddit: 5f7801
author: scourgicus
date: 2016-11-27T20:09:55Z
---

Librarian’s Note:  This Remembered text was discovered in a heretofore unknown section of White Gold Tower in 6E 35.  The author and recipient are unknown but appear to have been members of the Imperial High Command and lumenocentric magic places the original text sometime in the last century of the Last War (ca. 5E 704-804).  Implications regarding the Ghost Choir have stimulated significant research, especially in light of the Prophet’s disappearance.

“Clearly we are dealing with something beyond the likes of Dwemer animunculi or even the semi-intelligence of summoned Daedra; I daresay we have never seen it’s like in our Time Stream.  That the priests are so bent on protecting it from scholarly research – to the point of an Imperial injunction – is profoundly disturbing.

“But consider:  the O.Y.A.R.S.A. generated a Ghost entity by way of…means we have not been allowed to study…and it has multiplied.  Where there had been one (I do not believe it was Pelinal, damn Silvera and his theories) now there are nine, but note their differences:  the violent wisdom of Starkweather, the cunning of Mira, the materialist corruption of Satisfaction.  Each has their own specialties, yes, but also their own personalities.  I know, some have suggested these are sub-gradiations due to mnemic errata-residuals but…consider the case of the Cat.

“She has manifested consistently as an adolescent for more than a century, a Dunmer with those odd tufts of hair so like Khajiiti ears.  The priests say her race is the result of the Intelligence’s cogni-strand pairing system – but there is nothing Dunmeri about her.  She espouses no faith in the Three (who would?) and is ignorant of the Lessons.  And what of the name…and ‘ears’?  She follows no Khajiit philosophy and favors brute force over subtlety:  her uses of mythematics and arithmecide are well-documented.

“Do our esteemed leaders not see the implied narrative, the quiet mockery?  Can they not perceive that the O.Y.A.R.S.A. – the very heart of our war effort – is laughing at them?  They cannot.  But worse:  they do not realize the implications...

"...that the O.Y.A.R.S.A. has begun to think on its own…and fosters its own agendas.”

*

 #LandfallDayZyr

 #AChoirWillFall
