---
title: "The Orsimeric candle tradition part 3"
reddit: 5g40od
author: Sawbones194
date: 2016-12-02T16:04:23Z
---

The grand finale of this Apocrypha! [You can find Part 2 here!](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5g2ph2/the_orsimeric_candle_tradition_part_2/)





When Guilette had eaten, the last part of that evening had now begun. She had taken two of three candles and only Gharash was in her path to her and her soon-to-be friend.

*Why do I feel like I'm going to have "The talk" with my mother now?*

"Then tell me, Breton. Is my brother a good lover?" Asked the sister and Guilette was briefly shocked.

*The orsimeric openness within the family hardly knows borders.*

"If your father had not attacked us, I should have married him and abolished his lust."

*And the theme of the orsimeric inbreeding. How wonderful this culture is!*

"We have not yet come together in the physical act," said Gaturn, looking at his sister with disdain.

*He knows how unpleasant the subject is to me.*

"He's slow," Guilette explained. "He knows that I am still a virgin and this act is still strange to me. He accepted this and was cute to me. He gives me flowers, and it is enough for him to simply lie beside me, without taking our clothes off directly."

"Ha!" The sister bursting into laughter. Gaturn turned red. "He buys her flowers, like a woman! So the big city made THIS to you, brother? A sister for me?"

Gaturn bared his teeth.

*Crap. I said too much. Fuck it all. Fuck this World. Fuck everything that you stand for. It is not like the Slipknot awaits me. Here the truth has its place!*

"Oh yeah. We lie together. We cuddle together under a blanket and you know what? He even wrote a poem, just for me."

Gharash shook his head, Grinning.

"And do you know why? Because he loves me and I him. "

Gaturn turned to the Breton.

*Yes, I never told you that, Gaturn. But now it's time for it.*

"And you're ashamed because he is loving me? You would not think so, would even a man touch you without directly puke. I bet that the so strong and untouched Gharash would never write a poem, right? Then you just did not meet the right person to write for. Maybe a man would have mercy if you were not such a big pussy? With honey one catches more flies than with vinegar."

"That's enough!" Gharah shouted and slapped on the table. "I want a duel. On right now!" She jumped up and stood in front of the table.

Guilette laughed. "You can forget that."

"You hurt me in my honor! Get up and fight like an orc!"

Guilette smiled and shook her head. "You said yourself that you do not see me as an orc and that all that I do is just imitate from your culture . So yes. I hurt your honor. But you can not fix it like an orc, because im am no orc."

"Sit down, child," said the father.

"Make fun of your brother. Do it. Let's drop the moral posturing shall we? We both know there's no altruism in this pursuit. There is no shame in it. Love is motivation enough, Garash. At least it is honest. Hate him! But do it honestly. He is the best person I know." She loved to quote the great philosopher Kabil. "I completely succumbed to him, and when I spend the night with him tonight, I will open me, completely. But this time also physically."

Gaturn raised his eyebrows. "Äh .. What? Yeah!" He grinned.

"I will love him and he will take me and I am looking forward to it. He makes me happy and I make him happy. Why should we be ashamed?"

"Because poems are the language of women!"

"What kind of thinking is it? The greatest thinkers of our time were men! Carlovac Townway, Hasphat Antabolis, Kyngald Nazkrixor, Sawbones194, Mikhel Kruxor. All these men used poems, prose, and so on and changed the world with words. And you should know the Proverb from Severin Kirkguard: At the end you become a poet, for the girl you never got."

"But our traditions forbid that! We must love Orcs to get new Orcs. If she become pregnant, the child will be a Breton!"

Gaturn sighed. "Even if it were an orc child, I would not raise it orcish, sister."

"The times of the many orc tribes are over, daughter," said the father. "There are only 'the orcs' Not the Orcs from Morkhazgur. Largashbur or elsewhere. We are simply people of many. Let everyone love whom they want."

Gharash stood with her mouth open in front of the table and looked into her father's eyes. "Are you kidding me, you old bastard!"
She went on the table, went to her father and kicked the food aside. She grabbed the frightened father by the collar and everyone stood up.

"When I told you twenty years ago, I loved a non-orc, you shouted at me! Forbidden it!"

"By Malacath! I was stupid, I know, but ... was the person worth you so much, who was that at all?"

"You little fucker, I was in love!"

She had tears in her eyes and clenched a fist. "I've been going to the person secretly for twenty years, and I thought I'm going to bring shame to the family ... for twenty years, and you've just changed your mind ... you hurt me, father. I hope you know that!" She left the house.

The father breathed quickly. "She has a strong grip, you have to leave that to her."

The orc mother reached for his arm. "You were a really bad father, Dul."

He sighed. "I know, no matter who she brings to us, I would like to welcome this man to this family."

"I'm sorry," said Guilette. "I did not to end it ... like this!"

"Do not worry, child, it's not your fault but mine. Other topic. Tonight, son, you'll be stuck in her?" He grinned and spoke to his son. He grinned and spoke about the conversation with his son, whom he had led with him a while ago.

"Seemingly!" He looked at his love and she ran red. Father and son began to laugh.

After some hours, the table was almost completely cleared, Gharash stepped back into the house. Her gaze was serious, looking angry. They all looked at her. Behind her an Argonian appeared in imperial armor.
"Mother, father, brother. This is Onasha. My commander. "
"And your love," groaned the lizard, wrapping her white-golden scaled arm around the waist of the orc.

The father opened his eyes. "A woman?!" he yelled.
The mother frowned. "Seriously? This is what you noticed? The tits?"

"What? Oh ... Yes. A lizard. Good. Is not very common either. Uh ... how long do you know each other?"

The muscled lizard took a step forward. "We've known each other for 16 years and have been married for 6 years."

"You're married?" The father yelled again and Gaturn frowned. Gharash stepped to the table, extinguished her candle. "Yes we have. According to the Argonic tradition of Hist. This is a story for another day."
