---
title: "All-Flag Rangers: Interlude I"
reddit: 5g79cf
author: Sakazwal
date: 2016-12-03T01:57:19Z
---

[Part X, Within the Wetlands](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5fo4w5/allflag_rangers_part_x_within_the_wetlands/)

_________

.

.

.

.

______________

. . . .

____________________


**How many are left?**

*We have seven now. Only one remains. Location?*

**Work is ongoing. Do they play their roles well?**

*Very well, though some of the relationships aren't perfect. But then, they were never meant to be. It's broad enough to work.*

**I have been spreading tales of their exploits. The people sing the stories.**

*Good.*

**It is. What of the Snake?**

*He works well.*

**Expected. His desire for "kingship" was easily exploited. But will the switch work?**

*I see no reason it should not. My preparations have been extensive.*

**I have put my trust in you. Do not fail me.**

*And I you. You better be right.*

**And the Hog?**

*Perfection. The sword acts under my will only. Only the Hawk worries me.*

**That is fine. She was always rebellious, it fits. She will find affection enough to fill her role, eventually.**

*The Seasons are loyal, the Owl fresh and friendly. I only hope the Mother and the Moth are half-as easy.*

**And the Whale?**

*Simplicity itself. As loyal as the Seasons, but far more malleable.*

**Good. Keep working. The time is very near, so be careful. If coincidences keep cropping up I shall begin to suspect outside influence.**

*Only two coincidences so far. It means nothing.*

**For you of all people to say that?**

*It is because of what I have seen that I can say that. I know the difference. The Empire of Man is weak, their gods shallow and empty-handed. There will be no interference.*

**You certainly don't need to tell me that. I will watch regardless. I  need something to do after my escape anyways.**

*After you run away.*

**We all have our roles to play.**

*They call, I must go. Remember your promises.*

**You will get what you asked for.**

*Disconnect.*

**Disconnect.**

.

.

.

. . . .

***AH, SO THAT IS WHAT YOU ARE DOING.***

_____________

.

.

.

.

________________

[Part XI, Through the Blackwood](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5ghflc/allflag_rangers_part_xi_through_the_blackwood/)

