---
title: "The Morag Tong's Pillow Book"
reddit: 5gki14
author: luxoflax
date: 2016-12-05T06:43:12Z
---

**Preface:** I had an idea for this story as I was creating plotlines for a Morrowind RPG I'm running. I don't know if it is 100% lore friendly as I'm not sure if the Mark and Recall spells work how I used them below. Hopefully it isn't too egregiously lore-breaking. Enjoy!


   Toris Saren woke from his slumber to find his arms and legs bound to a long wooden table. He began to struggle and realized his pillow, warm and familiar, was still under his head. The room, stuffy and unlit, was entirely unfamiliar. Large wooden crates were stacked around the table,some baring the stamped markings of the East Empire Company. Was he being held by the Imperials? How had they taken him from his manor in Vivec without anyone noticing? Saren had dined in his own home that night and nobody but his most trusted servants had tended to him. What in Azura's name was going on?


   At that moment, a door opened from behind the crates. Through a gap, he could make out a tall, spindly looking man in robes silhouetted against torches leading down a staircase. "Ahh yes, we've been expecting you." The man took a torch down from the wall, illuminating his aged face as he came around to see Saren. 


   "Who are you?" demanded Saren. "Is this some kind of trick? Some weak attempt at extortion?" The man reached into his robes and took out a scroll. "No tricks. I have a writ for your execution so I'm afraid you can't be released." Saren gazed at the unfurled scroll and saw the seal of the Morag Tong. Someone had wanted him executed, that much was obvious, but who was this strange Breton?


   As Saren's mind swirled, the Breton heaved open a nearby crate and began removing increasingly menacing items: a magic scroll, a small dagger, a crossbow, some throwing stars... "There are a few ways to do this, and the choice is yours." Saren looked over the collection before him. "That axe." The Breton nodded and casually lifted the axe. "Very good. Ready?" "Wait," interjected Saren. "Who are you?" The Breton laid the axe back down. "I'm just a simple civil servant with a certain weakness. Though they are prohibitively expensive for my line of work, I can't help but collect limeware goods. I take the odd side job for the Morag Tong to pay for my passion." Saren was feeling increasingly confused. "Limeware?" "Yes. I had a fine platter but some scoundrel off a prison ship stole it just the other day. You will bring the gold for its replacement."


   "One more thing Outlander: how did you bring me here?" For the first time the Breton smiled. "Your pillow." Saren's eyebrow raised. "My... pillow?" "Yes. I have a dear friend in Balmora who sells extra-comfy pillows. They are especially popular in the higher circles of society. I pay her a portion of my earnings and she places an enchantment of recall on pillows to specific clients. It sends the owner to this room and makes my job much easier. Anything else?" Saren shook his head, still trying to take in the madness of it all. His last thoughts were on his pillow.
