---
title: "\"I was in an Outer Realm at the time.\""
reddit: 5ic5o7
author: Poison-Song
date: 2016-12-14T18:14:53Z
---

Yagrum strode up to the wrought wooden throne, sat upon lazily by Clavicus Vile. Barbas lay beside him, looking forlorn. They were surrounded by a temperate forest, the breeze pushing the heavy branches of the trees slowly, like seaweed under the waves. Yagrum was feeling impatient. Getting here was not easy. 

The two regarded each other for a moment. Vile spoke first.

"Glad you finally made it," he said slowly. His grin had a life of its own.

"You know why I'm here," Yagrum said, urgently.

"Perhaps." Vile gazed around the shadows of the giant oak his throne sat under, taking in the scenery as if he had never been there.

"Vile, please. What my lord Kagrenac proposes is pure folly. He claims we shall all ascend to immortality - a 'better existence' for all of us, but..." Barbas regarded Yagrum coolly while he gathered himself. "I do not believe him. I want no part in it."

"Sure, sure," Vile sneered. His grin continued to grow, sickeningly wide, with an infinite blackness inside of it. "You told me that much, but what do you expect me to do about it?"

Yagrum sighed heavily. He waded through thick guilt. "Spare me from my lord's insanity. I will do anything not to be involved with this foolishness that he proposes."

"Anything?" Vile sang. His pleasure was visible. Suddenly, his face shot foward, inches from Yagrum's, stretching across the distance between them in an instant. "Tell you what."

Yagrum took in a deep breath. He tried to hide his fear, but he knew that Vile must be able to smell it. If he couldn't, then Barbas could.

Vile resumed his place on the throne. "You don't want to take advantage of this... what did you say? 'Better existence.'" Vile looked down at Barbas and shrugged. Barbas seemed to shrug back. "To each his own, I suppose." Yagrum felt annoyed already, hearing Vile twist his words. "I have just the thing for you."

Yagrum braced himself. He had heard there was always a price with Clavicus Vile, and he dreaded what it could be. Desperation outweighed his dread, however. There was no turning back.

Finally Vile spoke. "Now get out."

Yagrum's face froze in horror and disbelief. Before he could utter a cry, he was cast out. The spot where he stood appeared as if he had never been there.

Barbas whined and sighed heavily, laying his head back down. 

"What?" Vile said, defensively. "He'll figure it out."
