---
title: "Gnorir the Cleverman: The Devouring of Foes"
reddit: 5k12lg
author: HamSandLich
date: 2016-12-24T03:15:35Z
---

Many who read this may know of the draugr, the blessed warrior dead of Skyrim's hallowed barrows. The scholars of the south, in their endless attempts to rewrite Skyrim's history and "civilize" the Nords, presume that the draugr were *cursed* with unlife for the *sin* of cannibalism. This is blatantly untrue, for many reasons, one of which I will discuss here.

As a hunter proves himself above beasts, so does a warrior prove himself above his slain foes. In accordance with this hierarchy, it is well within the victor's rights to devour the corpses of the slain. In doing this, he proves himself a hunter of men and honors a tough but ultimately LESSER foe. This Truth was taught to us by Kyne, the Lady of Hunters.

In devouring his slain foes, a Nord proves to all of existence that he is MORE than the slain. Those who fall before him are LESS than him and those who are LESS than him will fall before him. Furthermore, the victor adds the power of the slain to his own Span. This Truth was taught to us by the Dov, the favored children of AKA-TUSK.

Nords do not subsist entirely on the meat of the LESSER fallen, like the degenerate elves of the south, nor do they raise men in cages like cattle to be farmed. A Nord devours the flesh of the LESSER during or after battle, drenched in fresh wound-water, howling in the ecstasy of sacred combat.

So as one can see, the Draugr do not spring from some fictitious curse intended to scare young Nords into...*docility*.




