---
title: "The Falmer: An Anthropological Analysis (part 7 of 7)"
reddit: 5k6edy
author: zackroot
date: 2016-12-25T02:26:13Z
---

(Being home has given me a lot more time to write, and the conclusion is short and sweet. [The link to the entire text can be found here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S7zQLnJcEKPg7IAdCrx5g1QNR_9qvd9w3jJflORATJw/edit?usp=sharing). A big thanks to everyone who's supported this writing so far. Enjoy!)

 **Conclusion / Discussion**

 Our results have brought forth an entirely new direction for Neo-Falmer anthropology, findings that have revealed levels of detail unprecedented to the field. We have shown that the Neo-Falmer are not a homogeneous cultural entity but rather a diverse group of communities and settlements that are developing and advancing (relatively) independently of each other. Physically, they have changed little since their enslavement millennia ago, with minor adaptations to their skull and pelvis to support lifestyle changes. The Neo-Falmeris language remains enigmatic, and we postulate that the settlements do not have one language but rather represent a continuum of languages that correspond to their historic migration patterns (which too is uncertain). Written language appears to be sparse as well, with current records showing only two settlements that have invented a writing system. The two most advanced settlements, Blackreach and Salatsel, show prolific developments in their culture and society, showing a degree of complexity that rivals ancient Man and Mer. The future of their civilization, however, is subject to debate. Our research shows an active expansion of settlements over the past thirty years, and it is likely that the amount of Neo-Falmer conflicts is going to continue to rise. These findings have great implications on the direction of future work and what must be done to prevent war with their peoples.

 Our records from across Skyrim show a progressive increase in Neo-Falmer territory, indicated by locations of raids and larger attacks on the surface. Our results suggest that, despite an increased area of size for raiding potential, this expansion shows no directionality, meaning that it comes most likely from a simple increase in manpower and not from a strategic vision; reinforcing this notion is the fact that expanded area shows no sign of added infrastructure.Whether this is because of their fear of the world above ground is uncertain, but we will assume for the meantime that they are not  prepared to handle the logistics of expanded territory (the Blackreach and Salatsel Tribes are an exception to this theory, though the reason why they haven’t yet is confounding).

 Taking everything together, we estimate that the entire Neo-Falmer population in Skyrim is anywhere from fifteen thousand to as many as thirty thousand. These numbers are very troubling, considering our lack of diplomacy and understanding of these tribes. While they certainly do not pose an existential threat to Skyrim, their numbers could support a long war that would drain the region of resources. More so problematic is that if the Neo-Falmer are driven to the brink of war, their sparse underground populations would be incredibly difficult to find, meaning that hostilities would drag on for years. Beyond anthropology, an understanding of the Neo-Falmer will become vital for the politicians and military officers of Skyrim, as this is posed to become one of the largest threats to northern Tamriel.

 This paper is but the start of an opening field of Neo-Falmer anthropology. While I would personally recommend additional work into Neo-Falmeris linguistics, there are many avenues of research that will produce new findings about these enigmatic peoples. Thousands of years have passed since the horrific events of their near extinction and their enslavement. What happened in the dark depths underground after their alliance with the Dwemer is a gruesome thought, and our work to undercover their past may prove crucial to forging a  long lost connection with the legendary Snow Elves of old.
