---
title: "The Lefthanders and Sep"
reddit: 5m9t6u
author: FFLeo
date: 2017-01-05T23:05:34Z
---

Now this have been bugging my mind for a while, why the fuck do Left Handers revere snakes and Redguards hate Lorkhan despite him creating him?

But before we get that, let's coin an Aldmeris term for the Left Handers first. I've chosen Morimer as a term for them, basically "Bad Elves" or "Shunned Elves", now you might be wondering why I chose to call them this way, cause I have 2 reasons, the first is their "Sinister" name, and for the second, you gotta read the rest to understand.

So first of all, I'm gonna talk about my theory on their origins, which I believe isn't that bad all around.

Now I think the Morimer have originated from "Aldmeris" like any other type of Elves, but they were different, tracing to their Et'Ada past, they weren't butthurt about losing their immortality and were the first Elves to completely embrace their new lives. They understood the concept of CHIM and Lorkhan's gift, so they followed Seb (Sep) which is basically Lorkhan. Seb lead his people to Yokuda and blessed them with change to differentiate them from the other Elves, so he rendered them Left Handed. Now the Aldmer didn't quite like this, so they shunned them and called them the "Bad Elves" or Morimer, which is their current name from my understandings.

Seb taught the Morimer the arts of sand magic and how to survive the barren Yokuda, the Morimer society flourished and became strong, they even learned how to survive the desert without any food or water, impressive.

The Yokudans then begun to appear as they walked west of the earthbones, however this is where Auri-El or Ruptga tricked the Yokudans into believing his story, he implied the reason that Lorkhan has been involved with Elves recently and that defies his nature. This in turn has led Lorkhan to go mad and break into HoonDing, which if you actually look at him closely bears a lot in common with Shor/Shezzar/Lorkhan. This madness and trickery lead to the extinction of the Morimer, while Ruptga was honored and and revered, and made even more great in the Yoku pantheon. Essentially anyways, the reason the Yoku pantheon is so different is because it was primarily inspired off the Morimeri, but it over glorified the Tall Papa though. Essentially the Morimer did indeed worship more or less the same deities as the Aldmer, but due to linguistic and cultural differences these deities bore different meanings to them.

This is my take on the subject, what about you guys, what's your theories?
?
