---
title: "Scourge of the Grey Quarter, examined by a Dunmer Stormcloak Soldier, 4E 201"
reddit: 5mn4j4
author: avakinumibus
date: 2017-01-07T22:04:14Z
---

Zari Sarthen, Thane of Eastmarch, Commander of the Hjaalmarch Stormcloak Army. 

We Dunmer are a proud people. After the Red Year, many of us fled West into Skyrim, hoping for our neighbors to take pity on us. Pity was indeed given, but respect had to be earned. Brothers, the Nords are not oppressors, nor are they out for our heads. All our friends desire is for us to work just as hard as they do. Frilgeth Horse-Breaker's book, The Scourge of the Gray Quarter, should not be a source of outrage at the Nords, it should be a wake-up call. 

Lets look at the Dunmer of the Rift. They are industrious, and these Dunmer prosper because of it. They have fully integrated themselves into the culture and working class of Riften. They work day in and day out to better their home: Skyrim. Many have even found work for the Black Briar Meadery, the premier Mead producing center in the province. Its hard to have the Nords mad at you when they know you're the one making their favorite drink. 

In contrast, the Dunmer of Windhelm have cast great shame upon our race. Instead of embracing the proud history of their new home, they shun it in favor of their "traditions." It is all well and good to hold on to old traditions, but to be able to pay respects to both the old and the new, that is to be respected and admired.

The Gray Quarter, which used to be the Snow Quarter, has been turned into a disgraceful "little Morrowind." What used to be a prosperous portion of the city has been run-down so much that not even guards will patrol there. Life does not have to be this way. Embrace our Nordic Brothers and their customs. Rise up, Sons of Skyrim, and yes, I call you Sons of Skyrim, for it was once said of Hernantier the Outsider, a famous Harbinger of the Companions, "even an elf can be born with the heart of a Nord." 

We, as inhabitants of Skyrim, must join together with the Nords, and cast out the Empire that abandoned us when we needed them most. I have already distinguished myself in my service to Jarl Ulfric. He wishes for you to prosper, both on the battlefield, and in the workplace. It breaks his heart to see the city of his ancestors being torn apart by strife, and it breaks his heart even more to see good potential soldiers wallowing away in the filthy hovels you call houses. 

We, as the Dunmer of Skyrim, will release ourselves from the shackles of our past, and rise up from the ashes of our former homeland to free our new homeland from its bonds. Rise up, new Sons of Skyrim, for this is a new beginning for our people, and a new period of the history of Skyrim! 

Edit: Got mixed up
