---
title: "The Tamrielic Fronde"
reddit: 5ms12m
author: FFLeo
date: 2017-01-08T17:45:53Z
---

***
*The Tamrielic fronde was a series of civil conflicts, wars and rebellions that ravaged most of Tamriel during the fourth era. Most of these events tended to go silenced due to the current political landscape of Tamriel. We note a few of them:*

###Poor Peasant's War:


A small scale conflict between the Nords and the Dunmer, it was named after the jealous peasants of the old holds, specifically Eastmarch, who led the Jarl of Windhelm to believe that the Dunmer refugees were practicing necromancy and forbidden magic on the land of Skyrim.

It is important to know that this even could be considered one of the main reasons for the Dunmeri treatment in Eastmarch. It started when the Dunmer begun immigrating en-masse at Skyrim, at first they were "welcomed" by the local Nords and took it very gratefully. With the following years to come, the Dunmer has started to settle the lands and bring their superior techniques in agriculture and magic into play. For the first time in many centuries, someone has succeeded into turning the frozen hazards of Eastmarch into fertile farmlands for crops to grow, far more efficiently than the poor farms on the shores of the White River. The Dunmer at one point became the greatest agricultural exporter of Eastmarch, rivaling the naturally blessed new holds and their economical might. But the Nords yet again let their jealousy and insecurity do the best out of them. The White River Peasants as they were called at that time didn't like a bunch of snotty Elves dominating their market, so Hromgar Elf-Slayer held a convention with the major villagers about this issue, and they've concluded they must plot the end of this. Hromgar went on gathering fabricated proof on this and handed it to the Jarl, and much to the Dunmer's bad luck, the Jarl is a blown out Nord nationalist who particularly disliked the Dunmer and even had plans to invade Morrowind for a long time, only he's faithful adviser have been preventing him from segregating the Dunmer. But this time, he's had it all, he mobilized the army and ordered the razing of all Dunmeri farms and villages. The Dunmer being unprepared couldn't do much about it, half of them ran for their life by fleeing to the northern parts of the provinces, but they mostly met their end due to the harsh weather. The other half were mainly imprisoned and released later when the situation became slightly better. 

The Dunmer have always tried offering more of their superior services to the Nords, but Nords will still deny them cause of this event. It's noteworthy that the Dunmer got to pay a 20 gold tax every month if they wanna stay in Windhelm.

###The Kradi Massacre:

A major 4th Era slaughter, I'm pretty sure all of us here know about the Void Nights, and how Masser and Secunda disappeared and reappeared all thanks to the Altmer. Well the Kradi certainly didn't believe in that, so they declared their ideology in the big cities and attempted to enlighten the people about the issue, however the Altmer quickly took action and begun hunting them down. This escalated into a very huge guerrilla war and almost escalated into a real civil war. The local skirmishes left many casualties, but truth is, it was done out of good intention. Had the Kradi succeeded Elsweyr wouldn't be bowing to Elves as of right now.

In the end the Kradi lost more numbers than they've gain and they've been imprisoned by the local guard. The Khajiiti believed they didn't deserve death but instead imprisonment, but the Thalmor didn't think the same of them. They were slaughtered inhumanly and anybody suspected to be associated with them met the same fate.

But they didn't die in vein, proof was plenty that the Thalmor was responsible for this. The Khajiiti were begun to take the issue very seriously but thanks to the upcoming of the Great War, attention was quickly left off this until the end. When the Thalmor begun to impose restrictions on the Khajiiti, liberation groups begun to form and the Khajiiti are truly beginning to awake. The Kradi died off as martyrs for the liberation of Elsweyr!

###The Great Cyrodillic fronde:

Unheard of for Eras, after the end of the Great War, Cyrodiil begun to plan it's recovery, but with all the damage inflicted by the Thalmor, this would only be possible at a very high cost.

So the Empire only logically went for a huge raise in taxes, so huge that most people couldn't even pay for it. People were forced into the army and farmers were heavily pressured. Not only that but the administration was also beginning to illegally seize property to enrich itself.

The people of Cyrodiil were beginning to have enough of this and were planning to take out the pitchfork and rebel. But the Empire luckily realized this fast and made the necessary advancements to halt it. But it's noteworthy that farmers in Niben went on mutiny and exported outside of Cyrodiil, they were punished very badly as they've even decided to take resistance against the army, who only ravaged the land more. In the end, unrest still ensues in Cyrodiil, as it's barely capable of keeping it's balance anymore. No wonder why most administrators see a upcoming civil strife soon.

###The Rise of Breton Freethinkers:

A new phenomena or renaissance has underwent High Rock, and a new philosophical thinking have struck it. With this, many people believe that the Empire is rather a disadvantage than an advantage to High Rock now, so many begun supporting the famous anti-Empire separatist movement. 

But those are barely heard of at all as of today. Herald has it that they've been either silenced or exiled by the Empire. But they might ensue further in the future.

***
*
