---
title: "The Nine Tyrannies"
reddit: 5ntt01
author: Misticsan
date: 2017-01-13T22:33:19Z
---

*In 3E 109, a cult of Molag Bal was uncovered in the Imperial City. Although they faced serious charges of murder and human sacrifice, the case was brought to a halt when the investigators found out that all the ringleaders belonged to aristocratic families with ties to the imperial court. Finally, some of the low-class convicts were executed while the young nobles were sent away. Most of the evidence was destroyed, except this piece of propaganda directed at the new members of the cult.*

*WARNING: the contents of this text can offend the religious feelings of the faithful. Read with caution.*

Behold the tyranny of Mercy: it rewards the weak and punishes the strong.

The Mace.

Behold the tyranny of Death: it is the darkness no mortal can escape.

The Order.

Behold the tyranny of Motherhood: it makes us slaves of our children.

The Lesson.

Behold the tyranny of Work: it promises fortune but brings misery.

The Answer.

Behold the tyranny of Nature: it devours only to be devoured.

The Glory.

Behold the tyranny of Love: blind, it destroys universes.

The Beyond.

Behold the tyranny of Wisdom: it is the mirror of our ignorance.

The Ascension.

Behold the tyranny of Time: it is the prison that chains us all.

The Liberty.

Behold the tyranny of Creation: we did not ask to be born.

The syllable that cannot be spoken.

Domination is truth. Strength is justice. Submission is freedom.

All paths end in Coldharbour.
