---
title: "The Carving of God-Faces: Volsung"
reddit: 5p77by
author: HamSandLich
date: 2017-01-20T22:51:05Z
---

The dragon Tuzkrentokaaz teaches his adoptive daughter Jaan about the creation of dragon priest masks by the Drake Faastilimax and the Jill Qruhnilaax.

----
The second Concept was titled: "The Horror Which Arose in the Following Comprehension", which is often shortened to VOLSUNG.

This aspect had congealed in the form of a caravan of twelve-eyed giants, who dragged islands behind them was they waded between continents. These giants were strong and fierce, and upon seeing Faastilimax and Qruhnilaax, began throwing their islands at the approaching DOVAH.

Unable to overcome the giants with their THU'UM, Qruhnilaax divided herself into a pod of beluga whales, while Faastilimax whipped up a storm. Seeing the storm and not wanting to be struck by lightning, the giants dove under the sea. Qruhnilaax sang to them in the form of a whale pod, planting evil thoughts and suspicion amongst the giants. Soon, the giants began to kill each other beneath the waves, turning the waters crimson. Eventually, only one giant remained, and, overcome with HORROR at what he had done, and he took his own life.

Qruhnilaax had been listening to the dying breaths of each of the giants and from them she gleaned the Concept. Faastilimax then froze a measure of the giants' blood in time and beat it into a God-Face bearing the Concept of VOLSUNG, which confers to its wearer great strength, a glib tongue, and infallible lungs.

----

Part 1: https://redd.it/5p6vds
