---
title: "The Carving of God-Faces: Vokun"
reddit: 5p7up7
author: HamSandLich
date: 2017-01-21T00:56:04Z
---

The dragon Tuzkrentokaaz teaches his adoptive daughter Jaan about the creation of dragon priest masks by the Drake Faastilimax and the Jill Qruhnilaax.

----

The third Concept is called "The Shadow Cast by a Stillborn Idea", and is commonly called VOKUN.

The Drake and the Jill then came upon a village of sentient automata. The automata had built their hamlet atop the skull of a god who had died before fully congealing, and had built siphoning machines upon the osseous ground. Curious, the pair abbreviated themselves into two mortal aspects and entered the town.

Qruhnilaax asked the village head-construct why they were mining the corpse of divinity and the automaton replied that they were survivors from a previous Kalpa, fueled by a substance that did not exist during the current Kalpa. Fortunately for them, they had found the transitory corpse of a half-formed god and discovered that they could run off of the deity's mind-fluid. Unfortunately for them, the mind-fluid happened to be entheogenic, horribly addictive, and prone to causing painful misfires in their limb pistons between refuelings. 

Wanting to find an alternate fuel source but fearful of exhausting their tanks away from the village, the automata implored the pair to search for an alternate fuel source. They told the disguised DOVAH that their projection-units predicted that a substitute fuel could be found in what they called the god's "replication spheres", further down the corpse. Moved by the automata's desperation, the two agreed. As soon as they were out of sight, they elaborated back into their true aspects, flew to the "replication spheres", and collected the substitute fuel.

In the village, there was much rejoicing upon the duo's return and the automata began to use the alternate fuel. However, as the last automata filled its tank, the villagers began to gibber and convulse, apparently in the midst of epiphany. In sequence, the automata began to overheat and explode, babbling half-complete revelations as they died. Revelations that the duo knew to be the Concept they were searching for.

Untroubled by the surreal turn of events, Faastilimax used his THU'UM to melt the shells of the automata into a metal tablet, upon which Qruhnilaax inscribed VOKUN with her tail-claw. And thus was made a God-Face that bestowed qualities of transition to its wearer, granting skill in false-weaving, summoning from primordial places, and effecting change.

----
Part 1: https://redd.it/5p6vds

Part 2: https://redd.it/5p77by
