---
title: "Mundus Remanada, or The Life of Reman Cyrodiil, CH. IX"
reddit: 5qjn55
author: Alveryn
date: 2017-01-27T20:55:11Z
---

*A note pinned to the front of the leather-bound folio reads: [This final chapter is the oldest example of proto-Cyrodiilic I’ve yet seen, with archaic High Elven syntax which I strove to preserve as clearly as possible. Of particular note is the chapter title, which seems to be a corruption of the modern term “Divine Emperor” which I have preserved for posterity. Hardly the most shocking chapter, it nonetheless has a prophetic tone not present in the rest. It seems to claim that Emperors Reman II and III are Reman I come again, a seemingly mad idea, but certainly the clearest interpretation to my mind, though for impartiality I must note my contract-scholar thinks my conclusion is drawn in haste. I leave interpretations to His Majesty. This ninth chapter completes the “Mundus Remanada,” and the combined text requires only your seal of office before being presented to the Emperor. ~A.]*    

*****

###Chapter 9: Divus Imperator    

None knoweth how King Reman was poisoned.^1 Some whispered of jealous nobles, others of the Ashmeri, whose poison arts did excel all others.^2 Even the men-of-Sci were suspect, though some were heard to say it was the King himself, unable any longer to live with his despair.^3 As he lay dying he called unto the leader of his Dragon's Guard and the High Priest of the Aka-tosh, and spake unto them, saying: “Mourn me not, mine most trusted friends, for I go to seek mine Wives once more, but keep our Empire strong until I return. For I hath seen mine fate in the flames, and three times shall I walk this earth, then will I stride above and below it for all time.”^4 Then did the ghost of Reman Cyrodiil pass into the river.^5 And the Ruby of Kings did grow cold, and the light of the Dragonfires did die out.^6 And the petty-kings and Elder Councilors began to battle for power over the heirless Empire.^7 Yet Orochi-Syf and the men-of-Sci did not mourn, and did not battle for power.^8 For they knew that Reman would come again, and restore them all to glory, and resolved themselves to wait, coiled in their Temples.^9      

*****   

[CH. I-III](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5qetnl/mundus_remanada_or_the_life_of_reman_cyrodiil_ch/)    
[CH. IV-VI](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5qg4xg/mundus_remanada_or_the_life_of_reman_cyrodiil_ch/)    
[CH. VII-VIII](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5qg8r3/mundus_remanada_or_the_life_of_reman_cyrodiil_ch/)

