---
title: "Dragon's Wall and the Year of Sun's Death, Inveiw 1: the Nordic Perspective"
reddit: 5qt29d
author: BuckneyBos
date: 2017-01-29T09:32:07Z
---

“So, you ask Æl the Ax-hander what happened at the [Battle of Dragon Wall](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:First_Era#1E_660), and how it is connected to the [Year of Winter](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Sun's_Death)? Surely you’ve heard the [songs of throaty Wulfharth]( http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Sun's_Death)?The Skalds tell you plainly...

Of course! You Imperial hounds love your timelines to be so neat and organized don’t you? Perhaps you soft-handed bookworms forget about the poetry of the deeds and triumphs of heroes long past, these are the true calling of any Skald worth the wind in his lungs. Fine, order my next round of mead and I’ll tell you.

That book you cling to, the one with the 5 Songs of Ysmir Wulfharth… did you realize that the second and third songs are out of order? Well, technically they overlap...

For you see, Orkey, that Heather dog of Ald, Prime Chief to them there Orcs, caused a rousing of his rabble heathens to the east. In the mountains in the Dragons Maw, near the Tongue of the Devil worshipers... Orkey, scourge since Altmora... United the Orcs and begun forging a sacrilege city! 

I tell you, Orcs in those days lived in caves and rigged tents… even those stronghold Orcs are more civilized than their kin was then.They were always a nuisance, often few in number... but never afor did the brutes muster such a congregation... 

But, you see, this was all a ploy by the Specter of Alduin… the toothed serpent was pulling the strings of his lackey Orkey, as his profane civilization actually stole from us Nords, our very lives!... by profane ritual. These years stolen, the Orcish rabble, they tried to feed Specter of Alduin... so he may return and eat up the world again!

Luckily for us all, proud Ysmir! High King Wulfharth, the Shor’d Tongue, felt the warning of Shor within his bosom. Kyne’s Son shouted out to the Nords, and thus mustered all those with a true warrior’s heart. Thusly, proud Ysmir, assembled a great army to March on the unholy chieftain’s stronghold.

They laid seize to the unholy city, Wulfharth himself shouted down the heathen Orc walls! As they crumbled, Nordic berserker and Sheildmaidens were held at bay by a surprise. The Orcs, a terrible force in their own right… almost as formidable as a 2 Nords… [unleashed a slew of Sabercats](https://www.google.com/amp/s/amp.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5q7oax/precedent_for_the_eugenics_of_the_void_nights/?client=ms-android-verizon). The ranks under Ysmir were taken by surprise, as the Orcs had never before shown signs of cunning afore.

The Brave Nords, though stalled, slew Orc and pets in scores. But then, I tell you, the Orcs were only buying time for their king, Orkey, to see out his evil plan.

Orkey  began stealing even more years, via unholy ritual, from the brave Nordic combatants. Even warrior was then reduced to a child of six.

What’s that? The battle ended? Ha! No! Any Nord, six of age or not, is more of a match for any of the heathen races! Ha!

But they did loose some ground… not for the loss of stature, no... but because Orkey fed the stolen years to the Time-Eater, Alduin, and revived the ghost of the unholy Drake!

Always on the front lines, Brave Wulfharth, saw the black wings furling in the sky and instantly recognized the Fiend.

Ysmir Wulfharth, in body of a child, shouted to ash the Orcs and sabers that stood before him… then took a knee

He did not surrender, but issued prayer… to Shor, mankind’s greatest God and Champion!

The Ghost of Shor fell from the heavens like fireball, fury and vengeance his calling… and Clashed with Alduin, gnawing and cleaving at the Drake’s hind limbs. Terrified, the World-Eater fled, and Shor persued

At Shor’s arrival, the childed Nords bolstered, slaying cat and Orc til their moral shattered. They fled to the east, to become slaves to the devil worshipers. Orkey, the devil chief, was captured by knee high warriors, an brought before Wulfharth for judgment.

Wulfharth stared the Devil in the eye… AND SHOUTED THE MILKDRINDER TO HELL!

Once he had done this, Ysmir gazed up into the heavens with glee, as his Father chased the Wyrm from Serpent and back again. Wulfharth let out a hoary laugh, and let out a new thu’um. The children of Kyne were restored their age, but Wulfharth took on the years that had been stolen. Ysmir, brave Wulfharth… grew to dust and died.

He was buried with the highest honors befitting a Nord of his caliber, in the old ways. The 418th step to Hrothgar was rebuilt to his honor and deeds… and all wept the Breath of Kyne that had left us.

But not all had ended… Shor chased and nipped at the coward Alduin’s heels, for Eight years! Then finally Shor smited the Wyrm...! And at long last had his revenge!

But this was a showdown of ghosts… and on his victory and vengeance… the mortal Heart of Shor did rejoice! His Heart, hidden by devils, shook its prison so hard that it threw molten ash into the air… so All of Tamriel would know he had won!

This in the cause of your so called “Year of Sun’s Death”

Here in Skyrim… the truest of Shor’s folk, know it as the Year of Retribution!

What’s that? Don’t believe Æl do you? How bouts you challenge my son to a fight and we’ll see how a Nordling fares compared to Imperial mettle?

No? Wise choice… buy another round and I’ll tell you who Orkey was before he fell and plagued the true folk in Altmora… I bet you’d be surprised"

*Edit, spelling, changed phrase*
