---
title: "ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice!"
reddit: 5s8q5f
author: Misticsan
date: 2017-02-05T17:45:41Z
---

*From Blacklight House’s FAQ section:*

From the pen of bestselling author Bethes Dalas, *ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice* retells the history of the famous Saint Almalexia, Saint Sotha Sil and Saint Vivec of Morrowind with a unique combination of adventure, humor and drama. The list of published books is:

### 1) ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice

Once upon a time, Almalexia, Sotha Sil and Vivec were Saint Nerevar's best friends. When the Hortator died, the three heroes were cursed by the evil magicks of their enemies. Now, they use their newfound powers to protect the people of Morrowind and beyond. Together, they are the Triune's greatest champions: ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice!

&gt; ***Saints of Justice Song (adaptation):*** *They know the fate of Morrowind is lying in their hands. They know to only use their powers for defense. No one will ever take them down. The power lies on their side. Go, go, Saints of Justice! Mighty Thrice-blessed Saints of Justice!*


### 2) ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice: When the Dragon Breaks

Humans have broken Time itself and the world is in chaos. While Boethiah studies the signs and Mephala makes wards, Azura sends the Saints of Justice to stop the wave before it reaches Morrowind. However, their powers are insufficient to turn the tide. Only a temporary alliance with the House of Troubles can give them a chance. But can they really trust their former enemies or is it another ploy to destroy Morrowind?

&gt; ***Sotha Sil:*** *Lady Azura won’t like it.*

 &gt; ***Vivec:*** *Lady Azura can suck my Muatra. I don’t like it either, but they’re right. We need them. Morrowind needs them. To protect my people, I would kiss an orc or take Molag Bal out to dinner.*

### 3) ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice: The Sharmat Returns

Dagoth Ur has awakened! In the depths of Red Mountain, the leader of the blasphemous Sixth House has been reborn and now he has the same cursed powers as ALMSIVI. For the first time, the Saints of Justice have to face an enemy that is their equal in every aspect. Only the combined power of the Dunmer ancestors can contain the Sharmat.

&gt; ***Dagoth Ur:*** *I am the Sharmat! I am older than music! What I bring is a star! What I bring is an ancient sea!*

&gt; ***Almalexia:*** *Guys, have you ever wondered if our powers can cause situational narcissism, deranged hallucinations and delusions of godhood?*

&gt; ***Vivec:*** *Nah. As far as I remember, Voryn has always been like that.* 

### 4) ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice: The God-Emperor of Mankind

The Empire of Men has often tried to undermine the True Folk, always in vain. But this time is different: their new emperor is blessed by the Missing God, has the Voice of Dragons and, worst of all, he knows CHIM too! Still weak after their previous fight with the Sharmat, how will ALMSIVI stop this new menace?

&gt; ***Tiber Septim:*** *CHIM!*

&gt; ***Vivec:*** *CHIM SQUARED!!*

&gt; ***Tiber Septim:*** *INFINITE CHIM!!!*

&gt; ***Vivec:*** *INFINITE CHIM PLUS ONE!!!!*

&gt; ***Tiber Septim:*** *Damn it, I can’t match his superior elven intellect. I better negotiate.* 

### 5) ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice: Fall of the Saints

Hubris, the bane of all mortals, has poisoned ALMSIVI. They have turned their backs on the Triune and believe themselves to be gods. When Dagoth Ur strikes again, they fall one by one until only Vivec stands between him and complete annihilation. But when the Sharmat makes him remember the secret he chose to forget, not even CHIM can protect him.

&gt; ***Vivec:*** *I will not listen to the lies of a traitor. You killed Nerevar!*

&gt; ***Dagoth Ur:*** *No, Vivec. YOU murdered the Hortator.*

&gt; ***Vivec:*** *No. No. That's not true. That's impossible!* 

&gt; ***Dagoth Ur:*** *Search your feelings, you know it to be true.*

### 6) ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice: Nerevar Rising

The epic conclusion of the saga! Sotha Sil is dead. Almalexia has fallen to darkness. Vivec’s powers are fading away. Dagoth Ur has two of the three cursed weapons and is building a Second Numidium. But when everything seems lost, an outlander born on a certain day of uncertain parents arrives. As Azura foretold, Nerevar has been reborn and Red Mountain will decide the fate of the world one last time.

&gt; ***Azura:*** *They have taken you from the imperial city's prison, first by carriage, now by boat, to the east, to Morrowind. Fear not, for I am watchful. You have been chosen.*    


But the adventures of the Saints of Justice don’t end here! By popular demand, Bethes Dalas has teamed up with Zeno Maximus to cover the historical events not included in the main series. The new collection, *The Untold Chapters*, will begin with a trilogy set in the Second Era. The first book (provisional title: *ALMSIVI, Saints of Justice: The Untold Chapters – The Ebonheart Pact, Part 1: The Enemy Of My Enemy*) will be published next Rain’s Hand by Blacklight House.
