---
title: "Charlon Verrier and the Aedra: A Dunmeri Children's Tale"
reddit: 5sq39e
author: GoldenEyeOfMora
date: 2017-02-08T02:46:02Z
---

"All right everyone, if you've put away your dishes you can come join us for the good-night story.

There was once a foolish man named Charlon Verrier from the faaaaar away Cyrodil, who lived among the Velothi well before the chimer turned, trying to teach them the ways of the Aedra and of his patron, Stendarr. He was preaching to three Ashlanders one evening- a vicious student of Boethiah, a secret worshipper of Molag Bal, and a priest of Azura.

The four companions were deep in the forest that night (hidden, to avoid the wrath of the other Ashlanders should they learn of Charlon Verrier's sermons) whereupon Mephala, Lady of Hidden Things, convinced Hircine to send four werewolves to kill the four friends. They all darted off into different directions, each with a werewolf hot on his heels.

The student of Blessed Boethiah turned around and, with naught but a sword and his own hard-earned skill, cleft the beast in twain.

The one who worshipped the King of Rape muttered for his lord's boon, and the foul Corner's mace appeared in his hand. With a **thunk** to the werewolf's head, the beast was slain.

The priest of Azura prayed for deliverance, and the Lady sent her edict, like fire from the sky, and all that remained of the monster was burning bits of fur. 

The portly Charlon Verrier ran on and on. He began to lose his breath and so muttered a silent prayer to Stendarr, begging for safety. Unfortunately, Stenarr has been dead some few thousand years and Charlon Verrier died a grizzly death at the hands of the werewolf.

The moral of the story is this: If you're going to desperately pray to gods, you better be sure they aren't more dead than you're about to be!

Now, hurry along children, it's bedtime."

- 3E430 Sister Neras to the children of the Ebonheart Orphanage 

