---
title: "Book of the Wheels of Heaven"
reddit: 5tq636
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2017-02-13T01:55:36Z
---

&gt;#Book of the Wheels of Heaven
&gt;##Anonymous (Translated by Elicia Trenelle of the College of Whispers)

**Translator’s Note:** This book is written in Daedric, but the illustrations of various complex wheel, gear, and pulley arrangements suggest that this could be the Book of the Wheels of Heaven, a tome that explains the nature and construction of the Star Gallery by Clarentavious Valisious (Venerable Artificer &amp; Greybeard Master of the Hammer and Harness) that belonged to the now ruined Battlespire Academy. It was discovered amongst the wreckage after the ruins of the Spire were given to the College of Whispers by the grace of the Emperor and the Elder Council, damaged and soiled by mortal and immortal blood. Attempted refurbishing has revealed a decent amount of information related to the Star Gallery, and its connections with Aetherius and Oblivion.

“After the death-echoes of Lorkhan finished reverberating across the Aurbis, Magnus the Architect returned to the heavens bloodied and damaged from the affair. As the Wheels of Lull bind the Nirndus, so did the Ge, in their sorrow and rush, bound Magnus to the heavens through aetherial cogs, nymic pipes, and mnemonic weavings; the Sun, his Eye, became the focusing stone and vent of the heavens so he could gaze upon mortals and give on to them the power to reach towards the stars that had become his very being. Mana, generated from his aetherium-heart he shared with Anuiel the Fantasist, pours forward into the Void and the Nirndus to instruct those in the methods of reaching true peace, which is, avoiding the lies of the Doom-Drum that corrupted his wayward brother and cursed him to walk this world and the worlds that come after it, in this way or another, until death no longer requires life.”

“Merid-Nunda, First and Youngest of the Nine Coruscations, then left the aether-wheel to her Sisters and Brothers who still counted themselves Magna-Get, and told the fledgling so-called and self-titled Lords of Tumult of Magnus’ eternal fate. At first the Sixteen-Plus Outcasts grew solemn and fearful, as they did during when they swore their epigraph-oaths to the carcass of their cousin, but swiftly resorted to anger and glee, as this was their nature. They scorned Merid-Nunda for her trespass and abandonment of her Father, which could damage the aether-wheel beyond repair. But she whispered to each of them the secrets of the construction of the aether, erected in and without the body of the Architect, and how such constructions would gather for them endless creatia to end the wars that ravaged Oblivion. Nocturnal approved of this gesture, and Molag Bal brought the chains, and Peryite drew the schematics, and Trinimac structured the nymic-oaths as the Sixteen-Plus Remedies butchered Sithis the Realist and made of him the void-wheel, of which they bound to him and then bound themselves to it. And Merid-Nunda added in her nymic-oath without request, making of herself Sixteen-Plus to their chagrin, and dined with her new Brothers and Sisters on the body of the Great Dragon they had grown to love before ending their conquests in the beginning dusk of the last dawn.”

“Clarentavious, Greybeard and Artificer, born in the days when the eight stars fell from the sky and the sixteen-plus tides redrew from the earth, came to the Sixteen-Plus centuries after the death of his former-self, Cenedelin, when his skin was pale and his eyes were gold. Sleeve incarnation are humorous yet doom-driven things, unbound to such trivial concepts like life and fate, and in his mind, he saw the coming of the Red Jewel that would bloody the Nirndus. Therefore, did Cenedelin die and became ice in the braziers of Hrothgar, and Clarentavious came and drunk of this ice to remember who he was once was. From this ice, he inhaled deeply and looked upon the Red Jewel with knowing and fear, and focused his breath on the aether-wheel and the void-wheel, mythic-embryos of Magnus who is Anuiel and Lorkhan who is Sithis, and shaped with words more than words the Nirndus-wheel so that it was not only within but also without the Septim…”

“Five anchors – two of the aether, two of the void, and one of the Nirndus, binds the Star Gallery to the frames that keeps the Aurbis from rebuking itself. The Battlespire adapted to the Gallery after it’s construction, mobile-realm that is, sapient will-bone of the heavens and beating heart of Dawn’s Beauty. The Star Gallery, a great serpent of aurbic-diamond, protects Tamriel from the rusting of the Wheels of Heaven and those who travel between worlds and dreams. Woe! Woe to Nir and her children, who do not know their own end or beginning. Woe to the Ge, who followed the wrong Father. Woe to the Sixteen-Plus, whose charity will result in their demise. Woe to us, who have not yet survived. When the bell-chimes sound there is always consequence.”
