---
title: "On the Vampiric Bloodlines of Tamriel, Chapter Three: The Cyrodiil Vampyrum Order"
reddit: 5u2xd5
author: Nexerous
date: 2017-02-14T20:52:44Z
---

***On the Vampiric Bloodlines of Tamriel***

***Chapter Three: The Cyrodiil Vampyrum Order***

***By Anonymous, 2E 582*** 

**(Author’s Note: Shrouded in mystery, the Vampyrum Order is one of Tamriel’s greatest secrets, and most of my knowledge comes from obscure texts, and interviews with other vampires who have come into contact with the Order.)**

Rumored to have spawned from the Scions of Lamae Beolfag, the Vampyrum Order’s origins are widely unknown, but fragmented texts indicate that they came about sometime in the Late Merethic Era. Ruthless and cunning, the Order has monopolized vampirism within the Imperial province, nearly gaining dominance over all other present bloodlines.

Like their Bloodmatron, the Order has turned away from the God of Schemes, and has instead declared allegiance to another Daedric entity; Clavicus Vile, the Prince of Contracts. It is unknown when this secret cabal of Cyrodilic vampires came into contact with the King of Deals, but due to their involvement in political activities, it was most likely during the First Era, when the first man-made Empire under Saint Alessia was established.

My understanding of their relationship with Vile is murky at best, but it appears that they were granted the ability to conceal their true vampiric nature, and integrate themselves into mortal society without suspicion. Due to this, there are almost no accounts of vampire huntings in Cyrodiil - nor do they see the need for one.

The Order considers itself far superior to provincial bloodlines, and demands a strict policy of discretion and civility among its members. Although, they have a grudging respect for the Glenmoril Wyrd of High Rock, and the Whet-Fang of Argonia, who they consider ‘potential’ rivals.

Since these vampires are so adept at concealment, they see no need to hide in caverns or ruins far from civilization. Most vampire lairs are within the cities, usually located in or underneath the luxurious houses of infected plutocrats. Vampires either reside here, close to their faction services and blood cattle, or as individual undercover agents in any number of locations.

One of the most dangerous aspects of the Order is how far they’ve gone unchecked. I do not know how far their influence spreads, but my research indicates that they control members of the Elder Council itself. There are also obscure, unconfirmed reports from other vampires that they have spies within the Mages’ Guild, Fighter’s Guild, and the three alliances vying for dominance over Tamriel.

I believe I shall end this study as I do not wish to gain their attention by ‘knowing too much’, nor do I wish to gain the attention of their supposed “Blood Knights”.
