---
title: "The Requisite Book of Daedra, Clavicus Vile section"
reddit: 5ub4j8
author: Nexerous
date: 2017-02-15T23:27:37Z
---

&gt;#**The Requisite Book of Daedra, Clavicus Vile section**

&gt;#**Anonymous**

([This volume is an encyclopedic reference to the Lords of the Daedric Realms, their chief clans, the themes and spheres of influence of each clan, and to the legends and lore associated with those mortals who traffick with Daedra.])


#CLAVICUS Heading#

Clavicus Vile, who’s spheres are deals, bargains, pacts, power, serenity through wish fulfillment, and commerce.

Clavicus Vile, who is known by the monikers as the Wishmaster, Child-God of the Morningstar, the Orator of Oblivion, the Venditabant, the Regem of Mercators, He-Who-Spreads-False-Truths, the King of Deals, the Prince of Contracts, the Bringer of Serenity, and the Horned Child.

Clavicus Vile, whose realm is known as Desideratum, a tranquil countryside with dynamic merchant utopias, woodland meadows, and leafy green pastures.

Clavicus Vile, whose enemies are Ebonarm, and whose allies are Peryite.

To Clavicus Vile belongs these clans: Clan FOULMASK of the DREMORA CLAN, Clan WISHEATER of the DREMORA CLAN, Clan BITTERHORN of the DREMORA CLAN, and Clan PACTBREAKER of the DREMORA CLAN.

The Duties of Clan FOULMASK are as follows: To establish and monitor trade routes throughout the infinite realms of Oblivion, and to analyze the illicit soul-trade that occurs throughout Desideratum at the behest of the Wishmaster.

The Duties of Clan WISHEATER are as follows: To interlope all deals throughout the infinite realms of Oblivion that interfere, or otherwise besiege the plans and machinations of the Wishmaster.

The Duties of Clan BITTERHORN are as follows: To carefully analyze, and track the souls of mortals who enter Desideratum, and to carefully analyze and track their movements, behaviors, and actions throughout the realm.

The Duties of Clan PACTBREAKER are as follows: To collect the souls of mortals who have had audiences with Lord Clavicus after their contracts expire. To analyze, and record all deals made with the Wishmaster, and to ensure that no being, whether they be mortal, or immortal, attempts to nullify their contracts through nefarious means.

To Clavicus Vile belongs these species of Daedra: the DJINN, the DJINNKYN, the WARDEN, and the GUARDIANS.

The DJINN, originally found in Desideratum and created by Lord Vile. Highly intelligent and are loyal only to Clavicus, the DJINN serve as wish granters in Lord Vile’s service, and whose essence serves as a ‘template’ for the DJINNKYN.

The DJINNKYN (also known as the ‘Wishing Warriors’), found only in Desideratum, and those realms governed by Lord Vile, mutated and modified by him from the DREMORA KNIGHTS created by Mehrunes Dagon by infusing them with DJINN essence. They chiefly serve in Lord Vile’s personal elite guard, and are also notable for acting as bodyguards for high-ranking DREMORA merchants.

The WARDEN, created by Lord Clavicus from the souls of mortals, using Feyfolken as a template. The WARDENS serve as archivists to the Wishmaster, and are responsible for caretaking, and keeping track of all records within Desideratum, as well as archetyping the many luxurious buildings seen throughout the realm.

The GUARDIANS, who are known for being found in Desideratum, and a few pocket realms governed by Sanguine. Their chief purpose is to ask riddles at the behest of the Wishmaster, and to act as ‘Gatekeepers’ for the more prominent merchant cities that are dotted throughout the realm.

To Clavicus are these artifacts - the SWORD of UMBRA, the MASQUE of CLAVICUS VILE, the BITTERCUP, the RUEFUL AXE, and FEYFOLKEN.

The SWORD of UMBRA, created by the Nedic witch, Naenra Waerr (who some believe is Sheogorath in disguise), at the behest of Clavicus Vile for the purpose of the entrapment of souls. As Naenra was creating the sword, it proved to be unstable, so Vile imbued the blade with a piece of his own cosmic power, which later gained its own sentience. Taking a life of it’s own, the blade would remain hidden until a worthy wielder could be found. The Umbra Sword had the ability to change shape, but it is always in the form of a bladed weapon. It has been reported as a black and silver claymore, a jet black longsword and as a black sword emblazoned with red markings.

The MASQUE of CLAVICUS VILE, a helmet forged by the Wishmaster himself suited to his own personality. The MASQUE itself makes the wearer more popular among the denizens of Tamriel, which makes it a popular artifact among politicians, and merchant-lords.

The BITTERCUP, a goblet sacred to Clavicus Vile, and thus, highly prized among his followers. The cup itself elevates your highest attribute, while damaging your weakest one. It’s nectar tastes sweet, and honeyed, but leaves a bad aftertaste. The BITTERCUP itself is often used as an insignia, most notably, among the Cyrodilic vampires.

The RUEFUL AXE, forged by Lord Clavicus, is an enchanted ebony battleaxe engraved with images of werewolves. Thought to have been created at the behest of the Blighted Lord (Peryite) as a way of maintaining the natural order between man and beast, the axe has a wicked blade that is sharp enough to cut through a god, and is enchanted to fatigue anyone it strikes.

The FEYFOLKEN, an enchanted quill that once belonged to a famous scribe. Lord Clavicus enchanted the quill to enhance the artistic abilities of the scribe. However, the scribe was later cursed to always use the quill and could not be separated. When this occurred, Clavicus claimed the quill, and took the scribe’s soul into his plane of Oblivion.

Shoutout to /u/Al-Hatoor for allowing me to expand on his "The Requisite Book of Daedra, Peryite Section", by adding a Clavicus section.
