---
title: "The Orcs of Skyrim, Vol. 1"
reddit: 5v0c96
author: Black_Eagle78
date: 2017-02-19T20:46:21Z
---

**The Orcs of Skyrim – Volume 1: The Urban Orcs**

*By Jatvard Ink-Finger*

*4E189, Bards College in Solitude*

___________________________________________________________
Greetings, esteemed reader! The tome you are currently holding is a concise description of the dealings of the Orcish race in Skyrim. Though these creatures are often discarded as being aggressive and cruel Daedra-worshipping barbarians, these are but uneducated superstitions; in actuality, the Orsimer, as they are called in the ancient Elvish tongue, and by most modern academics, are a race like any other in Tamriel, just trying to get by. In this first volume of my account on the Orcs of Skyrim, I will describe the so-called urban Orcs, who inhabit the many towns and villages of the Nord homeland, just like the other races present here. Their stereotypical stronghold-dwelling cousins will be discussed in the [second volume](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5v0d0c/the_orcs_of_skyrim_vol_2/). For this work, I have travelled all of Skyrim’s Orcish-populated regions, and interviewed countless of the province’s inhabitants, both Orcs and other raced citizens. Special thanks go to Urag gro-Shub, librarian of the Arcanaeum of the College of Winterhold, for allowing me special entry to his collection, and contacting several Orcish chieftains for me.

Skyrim is unique in its relations with the Orsimer. Whereas an Orc in rural areas of southern High Rock or coastal Hammerfell can only expect to be lynched by the local populace, or, in the best case, covered in tar and feathers, in Skyrim, Orcs are respected for their immense strength and many talents, and tolerated because of this. In 4E85, Dawnstar was the last of Skyrim’s major cities to lift the ban for Orcs on entering official city grounds, and ever since, the Orsimer have contributed to Skyrim in more ways. However, many Orcs still face discrimination from the other races, and, as such, do not settle in Skyrim’s cities. As a result of this, visitors to the province can spot many Orcish guards in the more rural areas, and large bands of warriors and bounty hunters travelling the nine Holds in the names of the Jarls of Skyrim, attacking bandits and other threats to society, and protecting the roads. Many Orcs also serve in the Imperial legion. However, Orcs are also present in Skyrim’s cities and towns. Here therefore follows a list of the native Nordic settlements in Skyrim where Orcs play a sizable role:

* Solitude: Being the political and mercantile capital of the province, Solitude has large groups of all the races of Tamriel present within its walls. Many Orsimer live near the docks, where they load and unload the many trading ships which visit the city. Some Orcs also work as lumberjacks in the surrounding forests, and play a vital role in the supply of firewood to the capital.

* Markarth: Many Orcs work in the silver mines of the capital of the Reach. Markarth’s metal industry also counts many Orsimer. The Green Guardians, a mercenary company led by the Orcish Mog gra-Bugarn, protect the roads of the Reach from Reachmen bandits by order of the Jarl.

* Old Hroldan: Two mines in the possession of the wealthy Breton philanthropist Roland Chambilliere solely employ Orcs, as the owner wanted to harbor a portion of the refugees from Orsinium-in-Wrothgar.

* Dawnstar: The capital of the Pale holds a large number of Orcish laborers, who mostly work in the ship industry of the maritime city. 

* Winterhold: Large groups of Orcs were once present in Winterhold, where they guarded the many mountain passes and fjords of the Hold in the name of the Jarl; a task they fulfilled so well that they got the reputation to be incorruptible. However, after the Great Collapse in 4E122, most Orsimer have left the northern city for other Holds.

* Kastav: After the fall of Orsinium-in-Wrothgar, many Orcs were by the Imperial legion near the fort at Kastav. It is here that many Orsimer hold sizable tracts of farmland of their own.

* Windhelm: The capital of Eastmarch has a large group of Orsimer working at the docks, and Yashnarz &amp; Co., a large river shipping company, is centered here, led by Yashnarz gro-Gurub. 

* Shor’s Stone: The mining hamlet has a sizable number of Orcs working as metal smelters. Recent findings of ores has attracted many Orsimer from the neighboring Holds to migrate here as well.

* Helgen: The council of the mountain town pays the Orcish brothers Azarg and Godrun gro-Nolob and their band of Orcs to protect its roads and hilly hinterland from the many bandits of the mountain passes between Falkreath Hold and the Rift. The families of these Orcish warriors have been settled in the town for the time being.
