---
title: "The Orcs of Skyrim, Vol. 2"
reddit: 5v0d0c
author: Black_Eagle78
date: 2017-02-19T20:50:27Z
---

**The Orcs of Skyrim – Volume 2: The Wild Orcs**

*By Jatvard Ink-Finger*

*4E189, Bards College in Solitude*

___________________________________________________________
Salutations, dear reader! In the [first volume of this work](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5v0c96/the_orcs_of_skyrim_vol_1/) on the Orcish race in the province of Skyrim, I described the situation of the many urban Orsimer settled within Skyrim’s cities and towns. In this second volume, I will document my findings on the so-called wild Orcs, who inhabit the Orcish strongholds in the province of the Nords. While the Orsimer of the strongholds are quite isolated, and value their privacy much more than any race in the province, their respect, if gained, lasts a lifetime. The clanspeople are sometimes willing to trade with outsiders, and most of the time, contact is peacefully kept with the non-Orcish world. Here follows a list of the strongholds in Skyrim, starting with the Big Four: Dushnikh Yal, Narzulbur, Largashbur, and Mor Khazgur:

* Dushnikh Yal: The biggest of the Orcish strongholds in Skyrim. It is located in the south-west of the Reach, just south of Markarth, and it is headed by chief Ughash gro-Dushnikh. The large amounts of game in the area make the stronghold a prosperous centre for Orcish hunters, who often come to trade their findings in Markarth, where the large population of urban Orcs often plays the role of the middle man. The stronghold also spawns many recruits for the Imperial legion, bringing the stronghold and clan much glory and loot.

* Narzulbur: The second biggest Orc stronghold in the province of the Nords lies in the mountains east of Kynesgrove in Eastmarch, and is located in an area rich in game. The large Gloombound Mine, where vast amounts of ebony are dug up, is exploited by the clansorcs of Narzulbur. Though this favourable location has led to conflict with the Jarls of Windhelm in the past, a recent treaty between the late Jarl Hoag Stormcloak, father of the current Jarl, and the ruling chief Mauhulakh have guaranteed peace between Orc and Man in the region. During summer, Orcs from Narzulbur come to Kynesgrove and Windhelm to trade their ebony with the Nords, and bring gifts to the Jarl to celebrate their friendship.

* Largashbur: The third of the Big Four of the Orcish strongholds in Skyrim is located in the Rift, south-west of Lake Honrich. The Orsimer of Largashbur are reclusive, and rarely come out to trade with non-Orcs. Getting an exact account of the settlement’s situation was almost impossible, but a wandering Orcish mercenary told me that a chieftain named Ulfim gro-Largash now rules the settlement.

* Mor Khazgur: The smallest of the Big Four in located far in the mountains in the west of Haafingar. They are ruled by chief Larak, a strong and just ruler, and keep friendly contacts with the inhabitants of Dragon Bridge by the river Karth. Like Dushnikh Yal, this settlement has many of its younger males joining the Imperial legion; it is no surprise that the famous Great War veteran Larzgug gra-Barak also hails from this stronghold, and is also often to be found hunting in the surrounding forests. The Orsimer of Mor Khazgur are fierce opponents of the rebellious Reachmen to their south; the result of a past raid on the stronghold during the Great War.

* Cracked Tusk Keep: This old legion fort located in the foothills just west of Falkreath has recently been seized by an Orcish warband, who have taken to plundering the surrounding farmland. They have conducted raids to areas as far as Fort Sungard, and a high bounty has been promised by the Jarl of Falkreath to any Man, Mer, or Beast who manages to kill their leader, the infamous Ghunzul gro-Muzgol, a former legion officer gone rogue, according to the legion administration in Solitude. 

* Gershbur: A small stronghold located in the mountains of the Pale. Though the settlement was abandoned by all its warriors some decades before, for reasons still unknown to me, it was resettled not much later. It has a favorable position looking out over the Red Road Pass. The Orsimer maintain a treaty with the Jarl of Dawnstar, granting them hunting rights in exchange for tribute, which is paid in the form of lumber and game.

* Guldun Rock: A seasonal hunting camp for wild Orcs from all tribes and clans, located just south of the White River, on the border of Whiterun Hold and Eastmarch. Though left abandoned most of the year, the place is filled with Orsimer during the hunting season, when their hunting bands scour the region between High Hrothgar, Morvunskar, and Dunstad for game. 

* Orotheim: The settlement located near the highly strategic cave of Orotheim is inhabited by Orcs who rent the land from Jarl Balgruuf of Whiterun, but keep to their own laws. Their occasional raids into Hjaalmarch have led to the Jarl of Morthal sending many letters of complaint to the Jarl of Whiterun, but without any effect whatsoever. 
