---
title: "On the Nature of Lorkhan"
reddit: 5v4i7r
author: james_picone
date: 2017-02-20T13:24:27Z
---

&gt; "Lorkhan is often identified as a Padomaic spirit, yet there is a perspective in which his most notable action - arranging for the creation of the Mundus - was Anuic. This essay will elaborate on this (perhaps surprising) hypothesis and detail evidence mythopoeic, cross-cultural, and rhetorical.

&gt; To summarise the argument, notice that Nir, the Aurbis prior to Mundus, was an intermingling of Anu and Padomay containing elements of both - fundamentally chaotic, mutable, changing on the whims of any power that desired unopposed. And yet despite this Padomaic base - indeed, because of it - all change was merely superficial. The sand was shifted in the sandpit, but it remained sand, and it didn't matter - it would be shifted back in time, not that 'time' was a meaningful concept in the Dawn.

&gt; Mundus, Lorkhan's work, changed that. Now, change would be permanent, recorded, imprinted, and to undo it would require doing work that had its own costs and consequences. Reality became static, fixed, resistant to change - and because of that, change became meaningful. Lorkhan and the etAda took the lense of Aurbis and shifted it, so that a stasis built on chaos became a chaos built on stasis, an IS NOT that made IS the fundamental law of nature."

--**Excerpt from an essay by a student at the Arcane University.**





&gt; "You'll pass this course, over my objections, because the other lecturers think you have potential. Damned if I see it. You can't just string together adjectives and a couple mythic references and call it an argument; you have to learn how to develop an actual point and not a blather of meaningless verbiage. Consider this a warning: Shape up, or you'll never make it as a mage"

--**Excerpt from grading of same.**
