---
title: "Inquiries into the Wardens"
reddit: 5v9a8y
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2017-02-21T03:27:04Z
---

&gt;#Inquries on The Wardens

**Author’s Note:** I would just like to clarify this isn’t datamined or official information, I’m just doing what I do and expanding upon the new Warden Class being introduced with *ESO: Morrowind* in June and going along the lines of my theory I posted a few weeks ago about who I think might be the [antagonist](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/5rxu7t/why_i_think_peryite_might_be_the_antagonist_of/?utm_content=title&amp;utm_medium=user&amp;utm_source=reddit&amp;utm_name=frontpage) of the new expansion. I hope you all enjoy it. - /u/Al-Hatoor

#Wardens: Wildmen or Guardians?
##Written by: Eis Vuur Warden, Wayward and Contract Scholar

No, my dear readers, this is not a book discussing my occasional erratic tendencies. This is a book discussing a lost order of warrior-mages that seem to have been gaining prominence recently, mainly on the large island of Vvardenfell that makes up most of Morrowind – the Wardens. These strange individuals, often seen wandering the ashes and mushroom-ridden plains of the Velothi province, are considered estranged hedge-mages by the native Dunmer and newly-arriving outlanders due to their nature rituals, attempts to destabilize lava rivers with frost magic, and strong connection to the wildlife of the land, but are also considered gentle individuals unless provoked (whereas they will strike at their opponent with the fury of a natural disaster).

Naturally, I was curious about these ‘Wardens’ (mainly due to my self-imposed last name is also Warden) once I heard word of their supposed existence and traveled to Vvardenfell in my hopes to understand them a bit more. And luckily, during my travels through Azura’s Coast, I encountered two Wardens – a Nord woman by the name of Freyja Rockmender and a Bosmeri man who told me to simply call him ‘the Silver Hare’ – that taught me two interesting (albeit extremely contradictory) tales about the formation of their mysterious order.

According to Freyja, the Wardens are descendants of a faction of Nord war-priests that worshipped the goddess Kyne during the years Skyrim ruled over Morrowind, High Rock, and the northern part of Cyrodiil in the First Era. Renowned for their capabilities to manipulate ice and plants in order to heal their comrades during skirmishes, as well as their ability to speak the tongue of animals as taught to them by Kyne, these war-priests were able to turn the tide of many battles in favor of the First Council, although they chose only to provide aid when they viewed it necessary and absolutely refused to harm living beings. A prominent general began to grow envious and fearful of their power, and after realizing he would never be able to control the war-priests or persuade them to use their powerful magics to fight he prayed to one of the demon-gods of Oblivion in secret to rid himself of them. Taking the form of one of the great dragons of myth, this demon-god took affront to the lifestyle and rules of the war-priests and cursed them so that their ice would cause harm, their plants would die, and their animals would rampage as long as they chose not to fight, for in his eyes healers must also be killers. Devastated by this curse, the war-priests disbanded and became hermits scattered throughout Skyrim and its conquered territories, and almost died out if it was not for a few of them teaching their arts to aspiring healers, druids, and rangers who wished to protect nature both offensively and defensively. These individuals became famous and infamous protectors of the lands they resided in, and went on to become the mothers and fathers of the Wardens of today.

The Silver Hare, on the other hand, tells a vastly different story. According to the Bosmer, the ancient war-priests never worshipped Kyne – instead they worshipped Peryite (a Daedric Prince I myself have a tangled past with), or Rite the ‘Pear-You-Eat’, as he revered him in the traditional Bosmeri way. From the Taskmaster, the war-priests learned how to use frostbite from ice as a healing agent, to use weak plants and vines for protection, and to summon animals as war-beasts to engage their enemies. The war-priests were effective during the early conquests of Resdayn due to their powerful techniques, but they’re Daedra worship was kept secret from their Nordic comrades who still worshipped the gods they brought with them from Atmora. Eventually the war-priests began to turn away from their patron in favor of the traditional Nordic pantheon and earned them the wrath of Peryite, who revealed their nature to their comrades and watched approvingly when they were driven out of lands ruled by the Moot. The war-priests degenerated into wildmen and hedge-wizards who taught their craft to witches and warlocks who wished to become ‘one with nature’, and eventually these talented warrior-mages began to call themselves Wardens.

Freyja and the Silver Hare were able to agree on one thing, however – the reason why the Wardens, who have always been somewhat shy of the ‘civilized’ world and keep to themselves, have begun to grow in influence and prestige across Tamriel and, specifically, Vvardenfell. Because of the Three Banners War and the Dark Anchors dropping all over the continent, the Wardens believe that it is their duty as nature’s guardians and healers to aid the world as best they can, by restoring the countryside to its former glory and joining Alliances that best align with their personal interests.

But what of their origins, that conflict so drastically? Were the Wardens originally priests of Kyne or cultists of Peryite? Well, perhaps the truth lies in-between both of these accounts. The rivalry between the Mother of Storms (and her Imperial counterpart, Kynareth) and the Blighted Lord is somewhat well documented, due to them both being nature gods, so perhaps the ancient war-priests earned the ire of them both. Not to mention the rumors of an ailing Vivec due to some sickness is spreading across Vivec City, and that fills me with a dreadful sense of foreboding. But alas, I suppose we shall never know for certain. But the return of the Wardens to the realm of Tamriel is definitely an interesting event one way or another, regardless of what its significance is.
#Nature’s Winter
##Written by: Allencia the Ranger, Follower of the Ways of Y’ffre

It has been strange, living in a land such as Morrowind for the last forty years. It is definitely a far cry to Elden Root, where my clan has lived for the last two generations after immigrating from the Summerset Isles. How do the Dunmer stand not being able to see trees? Or daises? At first these overgrown fungi and ash-smelling roses intimidated and made me nervous, but after so many decades I have grown accustomed to them and see their inner beauty.

As a Warden taught by the legendary Gilyan Sadras, who enhanced his craft by studying with herds of centaurs and wild nymphs, it is my duty to help give life to the world and its inhabitants – whether they be humans, animals, or plants – through the gentle breath of winter. Of course, most healers and zoologists would state that ice is one of the deadliest types of magic and therefore should not be used as a form of life magic. We Wardens would care to disagree, as we have learned over the centuries that in appropriate and caring amounts ice can cool not only burns, but also wounds, tempers, heartache, and time. That ice can not only be detrimental to vegetation, but also provide it the urge to grow despite hardships. That it cannot only cause animals to seek warmer pastures, but also allow them to adapt and learn better ways to survive.

Take for example cliff striders, sometimes mistakenly referred to as echkin (which is another name for giant bats derived from legends concerning the eastern seas, although their physical similarities and the cliff striders rising population resulting in the Vvardenfell variant of giant bats to die off may mean this name change might become permanent, unfortunately), who are aggressive creatures that spend their entire lives scrounging around in the soot and heat of the ashlands. But with the cooling power of nature, and enough love and patience, even the wildest among them may become tame enough to be loyal to the right person. Thus, have we Wardens of Vvardenfell learned to tame cliff striders, their distant cousins the cliff racer, fetcherflies, and more because we have noticed that these creatures of heat deserve a cool breeze every once in a while.

Plants too, especially the plants of Morrowind, need the gentle love of ice in order to grow without too much warmth or otherwise they would perish. Many Wardens that live in his nearly-inhospitable land in order to roam the countryside caring for the wildlife and vegetation that desperately need our aid, as well as those who are hurt and need our assistance. Now that wars have erupted all across Tamriel, members of my order feel as if it is our duty to plant new seedlings where the old growth perishes, raise animals to prevent their extinction, and support warriors and adventurers who have no sense for healing.

In the end, I suppose, every living thing needs comfort from nature’s winter in order to survive the hardships this world brings. Which feels my heart with sadness, I must admit, but at the same time steels my spirit as I rebel against the bloody storms of the Arena and grow new life in its dirt. I wouldn’t be able to face the Green otherwise.
