---
title: "The Breaking of the Dragon and How the Serpent Went With It: An Analysis of the 4th Recorded Interplay"
reddit: 60bp2t
author: Mehrulun
date: 2017-03-19T18:56:47Z
---

Aka-Tusk is the concept of time, whereas Aka is the original Spirit of Time. Lork is the concept of Space, whereas Lorkhan is the original Spirit of Space/Dimensional Distance. These things we know to be true, with the 4th Interplay known as "The Time-God and the Space-God". They respectively spring from Aniel and Sithis, who spring from Anu and Padomay, who are revealed when AE splits the Void of Absolute Nonexistence. 

All is an echo, and as with the Enantiomorph between Anu and Padomay in which Nir is born and killed, we see this once more, with this time, Nirn taking the role of Nir. Lorkhan had tricked Aka into this creation, and Aka had lost a great deal of power. Lorkhan, being a trickster, takes advantage of this: Lorkhan eats Aka, thus forming Space-Time, essentially pulling a Boethiah and spitting Aka out. Aka, now having gained a Padomaic side breaks, and becomes shards of himself, the first is the God, Elven King Auriel.

When eating Aka, Lorkhan took on Anuic thought, and gained knowledge of time, he did a "Pseudo-CHIM" and saw "I ALL ARE WE". Auriel was enraged at his loss, being a remnant of his former self and lead a war on Lorkhan. Trinimac sided with Auriel, and fought Lorkhan to the death, for Lorkhan tricking Aka into creating Nirn and then eating him. 

Boethiah and Trinimac sort of have their own Interplay, with Boethiah taking on the role of Lorkhan as he is now dead and gone, and Trinimac now a symbolism for Aka. Trinimac is eaten, but he is not spit out broken and shattered, but consumed completely, his Anuic Protonymic evolving into a Padomaic Neonymic. Thus we have Malacath. 

From the conflict and his heart being removed and bound to Nirn, Lorkhan is so thoroughly shattered that his Nordic Incarnation disappears, unable to fight Alduin, causing him to shatter, a Serpent Break if you will (Aka is a Dragon, Lork a Serpant), and his personality becomes so schizophrenic he cannot help but to break over and over, creating hundreds or maybe thousands of Shezzarines throughout time. All that is left is an after image of what Lorkhan truly was: the Void Ghost. Bound to the world he created and never able to become whole once more. Auriel, newly worshipped, and down a champion in his victory against the "Serpent" establishes the Convention, and binds the world and Aedra together, and, with nobody left to fill the role of Aka, with Alduin, another break that occured, rising to prominence, Auriel mantles himself, or, rather, who he was, and becomes Auri-El. Auri-El intrinsically becomes Aka, no longer truly a dragon, but the symbolism becomes associated with Auri-El and through mythopeia Auri-El once more becomes a dragon. Lorkhan is broken, but his shattered remains still wish for the same thing for all mortals: to recognize the truth of the Wheel and the Tower.


As with all, this is a postulate, formulated within the Memospore Chat, and based in my own Padomaic Thought. 

Feel free to comment, and, remember kiddos, AE ALTADOON GHARTOK PADHOME.
