---
title: "Pelinal is the Godhead."
reddit: 60gi46
author: Gogira_Matsukaze
date: 2017-03-20T13:32:57Z
---

**Dreamer of Dreams** -  Pelinal is not the cyborg you have all come to love.  He is not a terminator sent into the past to save the future of humanity.  Rather he is the personification of the Godhead, the Lucid dreamer.

Pelinal is attributed to Aka, a Shezzarine made from the blood of Lorkhan after the arrow shot from Auriel's bow, dripped the deceivers blood across Nirn.   The mythos of his creation is simply that.  A myth.  The Truth is Pelinal came to be, because he willed it so.

He is the dreamer.

The Madness that he bares is not faulty wiring..  The true madness, the true dementia is making sense of something when there is nothing.  The madness is the Godhead trying to remember the dream, the dream that only comes to him via images.  Dreams often occur in a fog, a daze, the clarity of the dream is not always so.  Parts are confused and jumbled and not many know how they arrived in parts of the dream, all they know is that moment.  Pelinal gives praise to men who have not yet come to be, in this moment we know that Pelinal is more than he appears.  This is because he has dreamed this dream before.  It comes back to the Godhead in his eternal slumber, or perhaps struggle to awaken.  It replays in what we call Kalpa's where we imagine different worlds, but always the same people.  Always the same setting.    


He claims to be just like Aka, but Aka merely adopted the madness and chaos that broke him into being.  The true madness was birthed at the splitting of Anu and Padomay.  Light and darkness.  The madness of being trapped within his own dream.  Playing the roles he gives himself until he meets his moment of Love, his anchor within the dream.  A direction for him to follow.  Alessia.


Alessia acts as Pelinals anchor, the tether that keeps the mind of the Godhead focused on a certain task, that task being the genocide of the ones who reject the dream and the salvation of the dreamers.  

The dreamer becomes entangled within his own dream at this point, rejecting what could be and what is.  


