---
title: "Trinimac yet Lives!"
reddit: 60w5qo
author: Commander-Gro-Badul
date: 2017-03-22T17:47:05Z
---

*By Priestess Rohiga gra-Bagrakh*

Orcs of Wrothgar, you have been decieved! The priests of Malacath in clan Morkul, Fharun, Shatul and Igrun have always insisted that when Trinimac, god of the outcast elves, faced Boethiah in the Dawn, Boethiah consumed Trinimac and shaped him into a new god. A Daedra that goes by several names, but amongst Orcs he is primarily called Malacath or (increasingly frequently) Mauloch. I realize that many of you grew up with the religion of Malacath, and could never see yourselves abandoning it. But I swear by the sword of Penitent that I will convince you. I have visited the Summerset Isles, and lived with monks there devoted to Trinimac. There I was taught that Trinimac was never defeated by Boethiah, and that Trinimac instead tricked Boethiah into consuming him so than Trinimac could steal a part of Boethiah's essence. With that power, Trinimac was allowed to escape the Mundus, Lorkhan's accursed creation (surely you have heard the myths) and take his rightful place amongst the stars. But Boethiah would not let Trinimac's followers go with him, so forth she summoned the Demiprince Malacath, the result of an accursed union between her and one of the frog-men of southernmost Black Marsh. Malacath claimed to be what remained of Trinimac, and led his followers, who had been coloured green by their rage toward Boethiah, north from the beautiful islands of Summerset to the cold and unforgiving lands of Wrothgar. Some of Trinimac's followers stayed on Summerset. The Altmeri priests claimed that those who remained true to Trinimac's words were not turned green, and instead remained Aldmer. I'm not sure if I believe it, but nevermind that. Malacath's remaining followers of Summerset fled from the islands to Valenwood together with the early Bosmer, when king Alyrion of Alinor decreed that all the "green-skins and tree-wives" were to be banished from Summerset. Trinimac could only watch as this happened, however, as escaping the Mundus caused him to loose all his power over it. All this is written in a tome that was previously kept in the libraries of the Crystal Tower.

Meanwhile Malacath fueled the hatred in hearts of the Orsimer who followed him. Some of you may be ashamed of our Elven heritage, and don't use the name "Orsimer", but I am not. Malacath turned the Orsimer's hatred against everyone and everything, and when they late in the Dawn Era arrived in Wrothgar they slew everyone else there, only a few Dwarves survived in their underground cities. The Orsimer were blinded by hatred, and sadly some still are. Malacath is a god of pure hatred, and hatred will get us nowhere. It is no wonder that the other peoples in Tamriel see us as uncivilized and savage. Boethiah and Malacath must both be laughing in Oblivion at us right now, because most Orsimer still follow them. Malacath will grant you an afterlife of nothing but ash and sulfur if you continue to follow him. Trinimac will embrace your soul in Aetherius, a plane of joy and beauty. You need but embrace his religion first. Trinimac is the only true god of strength and courage, don't let the Malacath priests fool you. Malacath is nothing but an imposter. Come to the Temple of Ire, in King Kurog's Orsinium. There you can embrace Trinimac, and learn how the king plans to create a Tamriel where Orsimer are seen as equals to Men and Mer together with our allies: the now peaceful Bretons of High Rock and Redguards of the Alik'r Desert, all in the name of Trinimac. Sadly, many Redguard kingdoms still hold on to their anti-Orc ideas. But I hope that they will soon join king Fahara'jad of Sentinel.

Vosu Trinimac, voshu Ornim!

_________________________________________________

*Preposterous! Any sensible Orc will realize that this Elf-loving author is a delirious fool. Malacath has taught us what is means to be strong, and how to defend ourselves against our enemies. We don't need any "allies". Malacath has always been our god, and that he will remain. I promise that this "Rohiga" will pay the Blood Price if I ever see her. Or maybe she doesn't even believe in the Code. In any case, the Agra Crun will not allow these lies to be spread. Crunzarga!*

*- Azbekha gra-Fharun*
