---
title: "Numinex in Human Form"
reddit: 61cj4l
author: HamSandLich
date: 2017-03-24T23:40:31Z
---

Stupid Theory Alert
----

So, Paarthurnax says that he's visited Numinex during his captivity and that Numinex has gone so insane that he's forgotten his own name. In the rewriting of King Olaf's Verse, one can say that Olaf was Numinex in human form. In game, this is seen as fictitious, but hear me out, maybe it was actually true. After all, gameplay =/= lore.

I believe that Olaf was in fact possessed by or was an avatar of Numinex himself.

Paarthunax's dialogue:
&gt;"I used to visit [Numinex] from time to time. Nearly crazed by loneliness and captivity. Tiiraz sivaas. **He did not even remember his own name.** I do not know how he came to be caught. But the bronjun... the Jarl... was very proud of his pet. Paak!"

Now the mention of a Jarl might throw a wrench into this theory, but hear me out. [*The Five-Hundred Mighty Companions or Thereabouts of Ysgramor the Returned*](https://www.imperial-library.info/content/five-hundred-mighty-companions-or-thereabouts-ysgramor-returned) mentions that Dragons can possess "shed skins". I interpret this to mean that dragons can manifest lesser avatar-aspects of themselves. The greatest of Ysmaalithax's group is named his destroyer, Ysgramor the Returned, yet its clear that Ysmaalithax is a draconic version of Ysgramor (either in truth or retroactively through dracochrysalis). I believe that Olaf One-Eye was possibly a shed-skin of Numinex.

Alternatively, Numinex could have been possessing Olaf. A few forms of mind control and numerous powerful magics are associated with the ancient Dragon Cult. Dragons also seem to have a deeper understanding of their own souls than mortal beings. Numinex could have developed some strange method of projecting his soul into another vessel. This might be similar to the relationship between the Draugr and the Dragon Priests, with numerous souls or fragments of souls being bound together in a symbiotic relationship.

Additionally, Numinex's real name could have been Numunnax (Now-Man-Cruelty) or Numiinnax (Now-Eye-Cruelty). Its fairly certain that Olaf One-Eye was a controversial figure during his time and after. After all, Solitude does have that festival where they burn an effigy of him. And the fate of Svaknir also speaks of a certain capacity for cruelty.

So here's the rundown of the theory:
----
Numinex realizes that his days are numbered as the race of Dragons declines. Most are slain and interred in burial mounds. But developers say that other dragons have found various ways to hide themselves, including shapeshifting and other magical methods. Through powerful magic Numinex either creates a separate avatar of his will with a fraction of his soul inside or possesses the man who would be Olaf. "Olaf" then goes to Mount Anthor and "defeats" the half-animated shell that was Numinex and drags it back to Whiterun. "Olaf" becomes High King of Skyrim and rules from either Whiterun or Windhelm (or both and alternates between the two). Over time, "Olaf", constantly immersed in human life, begins to forget his true nature. This is compounded by the isolation that a ruling king can feel and possibly lack of regular interaction with other dragons. When Paarthurnax visits his old friend, he notices that "Olaf" no longer remembers that he's really Numinex while his dragon form resides in Whiterun as little more than a mindless animal. As for Paarthurnax's disgust, well, Dragon names are very significant and "Olaf" appears to have forgotten his, that would trigger some revulsion on Paarthurnax's part in response to an old friend forgetting his own sacred Name.






