---
title: "Uncle Sheo: On Forks and their Tonal Applications"
reddit: 61mq2g
author: HamSandLich
date: 2017-03-26T17:26:35Z
---

Uncle Sheo's Encyclonomicodex: Chapter Twenty-Cheese, Forks and their Tonal Applications
-----

Gather round my sweetmeats, around Haskill's lawn ornaments and listen to your Uncle Sheo tell your ear-noses about Forks, that most fig leek of utensils (except for calipers, those are better, but only if you're a squab).

Have you even wondered how when you horripilate, that you feel just like a gong? Well, that's because you are! You see, my Fork of Horripilation is not for eating, its for Dwemercraft and Dragonsong! You strike it against the skull of a Grummite and hear your bones sing, sing, sing! Like an Atmoran in a drakeskin! Or a Dwarf in a brass shell!

Ever wonder why Ysgramor sounds like Ysgra-Mora, which sounds a bit (but not a bat) like Herma-Mora, well thats a quirk of the phonetic sensibilities of a half-blind kitten in a glacier, which is to say, not a coincidence at all! 

And ever wonder why Ysgra-Mora could eat soup with a fork? Well, thats because he didn't! That fork (which a dead idiot calls a soup spoon) was plucked from the vocal chords of an un-named and used to weave the threads of-NO!NO!NO!NO!-and go against the metronome to tonally tune the turnings of his own surroundings. That fork was curdled after **my** fork, or maybe not. But it still did the same thing, only more killy and less tea party. Ysgra-Mora looked at the shape of Sithis (after all Sithis is quite the Fox) and decided to fashion a tuning fork for the Voice of his Love!

So when the Dwemer saw the sons of Ysgra-Mora Shouting and screaming at the Snow Elves to die so hard that they did, they were completely confused and inspired, like a boot in a river or a line of skulls staring stupidly at the still sky searching for something! The raisin that Keening looks like a Fork upside-down is because it is! Handkerchief Tonal Arkie-tect Kag-n-snacks was looking to get to gather an orchestra, with a Drummer as the main attraction!

And that's why I gave my Fork to a Dragon Priest, because he knew the Power Sounds that make Forks sing like a beautiful princess kidnapping a dragon to keep in the Stone basement of her Tower until a Knight comes to rescue her but is really tricked into jumping into a boiling cauldron for the wedding meal of the Princess and the Dragon (who has long since grown fond of his captor). Last I heard they were expecting their first child, I do so hope they'll name it after me.

The ending of these beginnings is AE GHARTOK MLUO [WABBAJACK] AE ALTADOON.
