---
title: "Ulfric Stormcloak's Declaration of Skyrim's Independence (4E202)"
reddit: 628u7w
author: avakinumibus
date: 2017-03-29T19:25:49Z
---

To whom it may concern:

I, Ulfric Stormcloak, Jarl of Windhelm, declare the united Holds of Skyrim to be an independent and sovereign state guided by the laws of Skyrim and Skyrim alone. With Talos as my witness, the Sons of Skyrim dissolve all political ties to the Empire founded by Tiber Septim, who ascended to become the ninth Divine. We bring forth these grievances, which influenced our decision: the Outlaw of Talos Worship, Division of our fair lands, Shedding of Nord Blood, and the allowance of Thalmor Justiciars to roam our lands and abduct our people.

How can an Empire survive without its Soul? The Empire lost the Nords as it's subjects the day you submitted to the Elves and outlawed the worship of Talos. An Empire who forgets it's progenitor should be razed to the ground.

Your submission to the damn elves resulted in a needless war in which many Nords perished, as well as your own people. My people have been pitted against eachother: Father against son, brother against brother. The result of which was a defeat for your Empire and Tullius's head on a pike.

Many good people died in that damn war. My people are anguished, and you Milk-drinkers are to blame. Skyrim will not stand for foreign powers slaughtering it's people. We, as the Sons of Skyrim, will protect our borders from Cyrodiil, the Thalmor, and any other group unfortunate enough to cross our borders with malicious intent.

Thalmor Justiciars have roamed our lands for too long. No longer. Those damn elves can patrol your lands if that is your wish, but any elves that come across our borders will be treated to a sword in the stomach. The Dominion Embassy will henceforth be used as a Temple of Talos.

Heed the words of this document. Skyrim is now completely separate from Cyrodiil, and is now sovereign and independent. Any military personnel found across our borders will be put to the sword. 

Ulfric Stormcloak,
Jarl of Windhelm


