---
title: "The Feline Wolf Sisters"
reddit: 62cw21
author: Suraru
date: 2017-03-30T09:21:23Z
---

So I decided to write a casual summary style aprocrapha that's as fanfictiony as it comes. Hopefully it's accepted here. Please forgive but point out errors, I wrote it up during one shift and have only revised it a single time, hoping it's good enough to post at this point.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SU888-etw0M67CF_wdEyx9W8L11LxXVH3gSQU2dM0M0/edit?usp=sharing

I've been lurking here for a while, been a fan since Oblivion, and this story was generated from a long RP arc I finished on ESO. Let me know what you think, and please be honest and constructive. This is my first piece I've actually made public, and I'm looking to improve on lore accuracy as well as my writing style and structure. I also try to mix cultures akin to what you'd see in real life, instead of making the main characters stereotypes of a race.

It's the story of two khajiit sisters who became werewolves. I'm personally not too fond of the title, but I thought the story was wrapped up pretty nicely and I'm wondering what people think of the writing style I chose. I tried to pace it quickly enough to keep it medium length, while still having the feeling of a long and epic story. Using what I learn from critism on this, I plan on making another racial mix story with khajiit again plus woodelves, revolving around the idea of a fire dancing culture. You know, actually adding some lore instead of just making a story within bounds of existing lore.

Thanks for reading if you did!
