---
title: "The Forbidden Journal of Indoril Nerevar: Entry #36"
reddit: 63f7a6
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2017-04-04T16:31:25Z
---

I have seen the Tower which to say I have seen myself, my mortal death and the multitudes of my  immortality.

Tomorrow I will enter Red Mountain, to dispel the denials of Dumac, and challenge Kagrenac’s dangerous usurpation.

To Alandro Sul I entrust this journal; testament to my Love; for him, and for Resdayn.  So that we can meet the future, together, as it is meant to be.

I have seen the ending of the words.  The only ending that spares us the sword we have placed at our own throat.

The ending of the words is WE.

*****
[*The following is written in a different, much clumsier script.  Some of the lines merge or even cross over others, as if the writer was not watching where they were writing.  The ink is smeared in places.*]

**Nerevar was betrayed.**

**The false Tribunal seeks to erase his beautiful truth.**

**To seal and protect this truth, with the consent of my matron Azura, I relinquish my Royalty.**

**Though struck blind I will place here the last thing I saw after striking Wulfharth: [The Foul Murder of Indoril Nerevar](https://www.imperial-library.info/sites/default/files/foulmurder.jpg).  A brave soldier killed by the wanton experimentation of the ambitious; a noble star placed in the mouth of the world only to be murdered.**

**Never shall these words of my Hortator be erased and replaced with lies and omissions.**

**Never will it be true that he had any truer love than I.**

**Never shall the ending of the words be ALMSIVI.**

**This truth will haunt those foul usurpers,**

**Until he is I**

**And All are WE.**
