---
title: "Ravings of a Worm Anchorite"
reddit: 64g7t9
author: TheTimeSquid
date: 2017-04-09T23:46:44Z
---

The following was recovered from the lair of a Worm Anchorite by Imperial Battlemages on the 15th of Sun’s Dusk 3E 433. The resident necromancer was not found, though several undead and traps were still active within the cave. The search continues for the last vestiges of the Cult of the Black Worm, as part of an increase in hostility towards practitioners of necromancy by the successor of Archmage Hannibal Traven, who first instituted the ban on necromancy.

There are those amongst so-called scholars of the arcane and divine that would lay forth the claim that our Sovereign in fact did not ascend to divinity during the events known as the Warp in the West. They would claim that the Jills of AKA-TOSH re-wove time, chaining Our Sovereign to the realm of mortality. They are liars! Fools and idiots, one and all! Our Sovereign transcended the bounds of the Arena, He walks now beyond the rusted chains with which the Dragon-Twice-Broken would seek to bind all the Aurbis-As-It-Is. The Jills of AKA-TOSH could only bind to Nirn the flesh-memory of our Sovereign, but in doing so the Dragon gave us a great advantage against the the Enemy AR-KAY, for the King of Worms walks the world yet, the flesh-memory made avatar, and through him we may commune with and hear the decree of the God of Worms!
Those that would doubt, would deny I say this: Behold the altars, bathed in the glow of the Necromancer’s Moon! This is the sign that our Sovereign dwells now in the realm of divinity, denying the Law of AR-KAY to those that pay homage to Him! Still He speaks in dreams to those that are devout, bestowing upon them the secret of lichdom! And amongst those that have been blessed with such knowledge the most beloved of His servants may yet be risen to sit at His hand beyond the walls of the Arena!
So listen those that are still faithful, restore the altars to our Sovereign, pray beneath the light of the Revenant, offer sacrifice and listen should our Sovereign deign to bestow upon you secrets of undeath! Come when the King of Worms calls, for he is the avatar of our Sovereign, bring your servants of bone and flesh to march beneath the banner of the Revenant! 

NAGAI AE ARCAN! MANNIMARCO AE OI!


The ending lines appear to be a form of Old Ehlnofex, and roughly translate as follows:
‘Death is knowledge! Mannimarco is eternal!’

