---
title: "Notes on the Western Hemisphere Information Network"
reddit: 65ps41
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2017-04-16T15:55:09Z
---

&gt;#Notes on the Western Hemisphere Information Network

&gt;##Written By Anonymous

Created in the year 3E 325, the **Western Hemisphere Information Network** operated conjointly by the East Empire Trading Company and the Gold Coast Trading Company is a vast news organization that utilizes magical (scrying, portals, telepathy, memospore, etc.) communication, letter couriering, and the interesting radio technology evented by the Echmer of Yneslea in order for the civilized and non-hostile races of Nirn can communicate with one another on a semi-regular basis. Famous journalism organizations, like the Black Horse Courier, the Imperial Geographical Society, and the Scenarist Guild are members and operators of the Network.

Despite its name, the WHIN does not exclusively focus on the Empire and its dependents. It also has receivers in the Aldmeri Dominion, Argonia, Morrowind, Hammerfell, the island-nations of Roscrea, Esroniet, Topal Island, and Cathnoquey, the microcontinent/archipelago of Yneslea, and the still-functioning remnants of Yokuda. The only civilized countries and continents that have to join the Network are Akavir, Pyandonea, Thras, and Atmora (for obvious reasons). Because Aldmeris does not exist in the traditional sense it is doubtful receivers can be implemented there, and although the lunar colonies of Masser and Secunda established WHIN outposts and receivers in 3E 343, there has been minimal contact with them. All attempts to establish receivers in Aetherius and Oblivion has been met with incredible opposition and hate mail.

The Network has always been the chief distributor of information to the known and non-hostile world since its inception, allowing for citizens of all nations to be well-informed of the events that transpire on Nirn. It also prides itself for being impartial in regards to the past and current politics of Nirn, and has never intentionally spread propaganda in times of war and strife. If members of the Network are discovered to be overly bias in their writings and transmissions, they are normally dismissed or put on trial for uncordial conduct. Members of any race – mortal or otherwise – can find a career in the WHIN organization, as prejudice in any form is strictly prohibited.

In the year 4E 188 the Network found itself facing disbandment after several members were discovered to be spies from several nations (most notably: the Penitus Oculatus of the Empire, the Eyes of Auriel in the Aldmeri Dominion, the Echelons of the Echmeri Directorate, and the Dunmeri Morag Tong) due to the Great War. Although the organization emerged unscathed after several legal battles, it is obvious that WHIN has nearly tripled their policies and employee screening, and now seems to have a vendetta against all of the nations in the world due to their mistreatment of Nirn’s biggest (and only) news organization. Whether or not the nations can regain the trust of the Network in the future remains to be seen.
