---
title: "The Four Cities of the Bjoulsae"
reddit: 65t1m9
author: Blackcoldren
date: 2017-04-17T02:37:26Z
---

When the world began there sat in the riverbanks of the Bjoulsae a kingdom named the same, and therein lived all folk of the time. And with all folk of the world came all knowledge of the world and thus were made the four cities to house it.


The first city made to house the world's knowledge was Kwalafurduz which sat upon the northern bank. There ruled the Poet Antaswara who spat lightning at his courtiers for their bad manners and made the Bal Stone which sang music over the lands, he ruled there for 2,800 years. 


The second city made to house the world's knowledge was Isdambaga which sat beneath the riverbed mud. There ruled the Poet Marah who became a fish to escape her seventh wife and used the Spear of LYG to strike down the fairies before their tales were ever writ, she ruled there for 85,443 years. 


The third city made to house the world's knowledge was Joakim which sat upon the western bank. There ruled the Poet Hoongelach who at times would take off his face to scare his fellows and made from his fire-flesh a torch-sword which none escaped, he ruled there for 3,292 years.


The fourth city made to house the world's knowledge was Pelendones which sat upon the southern bank. There ruled the Poet Orunmila who taught roots how to swim and guard and made the Dagda Well which gave life to the lifeless and from which all forests of this world sprang forth, he rules there still.
