---
title: "Commentaries on the Malachite Tablet"
reddit: 66p2mu
author: saufall
date: 2017-04-21T13:08:40Z
---

O. that which is above is equal to which is below, and what is transient is also eternal. This one should have no doubt, for the Ghost is in the Body, and the Body represents the Ghost.

I. that which exist as firm substances in Nirn, have in themselves potential that may invoke change. of this one should have no doubt, for even a child knows from the abrasion of the branches cometh the fire. The different types of potential are called elements, which represent the divine spirit of Nature that dictates our physical reality. 

II. There are four elements; fire, water, heaven, earth. The fire is on the right hand of the King, water the left. Heaven is above his head, and earth below his feet. By this I mean there is a King in the centre, whose mantra keeps the secret of transmutation. The elements splay round the King-in-the-Centre as if halo. The king is dead.

III. As all matter of the Natural and the Supernatural are composed of the four elements, and the four elements emanations of the mantra. Thus I say All is born in One, by this I mean the Word is Dead, and thence Resurrected through Alchemy. The end of resurrection is achieved through transmutations- by this I mean the birth of the New.

IV. The secret Mantra hath been pronounced. Now recite the four corners of Truth; The Sun is its father, the moon its mother, the wind hath carried it in its belly, the earth is its nurse. The Natural and the Supernatural realities are maintained through Alchemical Equilibrium. The Sun conquers, the Moon betrays, the Wind manifests, the Earth nurtures, the One remains. Reagents react with reagents, events with events. Through the application of the principle of similarity the Potential to Change is purified; the Superior and the Inferior; the King and the Other. 

V.  The Mother of all perfection in the whole world is here. 

VI. The secret Mantra hath revealed itself; its ineffability lost. Now make an idol with Earth in imitation of its majesty. The Halo of Her Name shall become thy Crown. Now the number hath become six, the number of the Were-Prince.

VII. Now retrieve thy substances in the trials of the Furnace, separate with great industry the subtle from the gross, the son from the mother.
The transmutation is now compleate.

VIII. Which is above is now below. The father is now the son, and the son the father. Let this be the Sign of Anointment.

IX. By this means you shall have the glory of the whole world. The cycle is now compleate, the destiny fulfilled. Don the Regalia with pride. 

X.This is true without error, certain and most true. All obscurity shall now flee from the sight of thee. 
 
XI. Now behold! The Heaven is thy Crown, the Earth kneel before thy Feet, the Fire burns fiercely for eternity in the glory of thy right Hand, and with thy left Hand thou chokest the throat of the torrent-of-hunger. This is the secret of Alchemy, the might of the Nu-Mantia.

XII. For eternity, thy flesh and bones not lost. For how does one annihilate the One of the Void? How does one kill one that has not yet born, and by which everything is born?

XIII. And these are which are engraved on the Tablet of Malachite. From this are and do come admirable adaptations whereof the means (or process) is here in this. Hence I am called ALMSIVI,  having the three parts of the Magik of the whole world.

XIV. Behold! Now the Dawn-Star rises. Rejoice in thy transient eternity, the servants of the-star-and-the-serpent! We are now One Great House under the Moon-and-Star.



