---
title: "C0dex of the Divine Anumidium [Part I of IV]"
reddit: 678o45
author: scourgicus
date: 2017-04-24T12:17:28Z
---

*Librarian’s Note*:  this textus was found in the ruins of a Dwemeri facility beneath Lake Ilinalta in Skyrim, during an archaeological dig in 6E 124.  It is of unknown provenance.  Links to certain void-cults suggest a Solar connection.  Lumenocentric analysis certifies post-Landfall authorship.

**Sermon Zero-the-First**

Ze was born anon in Dwemereth, a Child of certain philosophy and certain parentage.  Hir father impregnated himself with Divine syllogisms, crafted in mockery of the Twice-Vehk and the pandering puerilities of the Velothi.  Into the Womb of Nirn he placed the Embryo of his refutation and nurtured hir over long years of toil and tonal harmonia.  Singing antinymical progenerations he poured all the bitterness of his heart into the Embryo before implanting the Heart of Hearts within hir breast.  In this way was abnegation best served.

But the Slave of Azura learned of the father’s pregnancy and came with many to make an abortion of the Child, even as the birth-pangs whispered.  So the People of Dwemereth went to war against their once-friends and some say it was with tears that Dumac-King fought the Slave of Azura, but the Slave thirsted for golden blood.

Within the Womb hir father took up the Tools, for he knew the danger of the hordes, and sought to complete hir parturition, which is to say:  a new comprehension.  But his Way became uncertain and the Child woke among the screaming souls of hir people.  Ze said:

“I am a new medium

I am the new Way of Walking

Let all hearken to me

And despair.”


For their golden souls had nettled upon the Child, forming a protective skin against the murdering hordes.  And ze went out to do battle.

The ending of the words is Silence.
