---
title: "C0dex of the Divine Anumidium [Part III of IV]"
reddit: 67pf7k
author: scourgicus
date: 2017-04-26T16:53:33Z
---

[Part I: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/678o45/c0dex_of_the_divine_anumidium_part_i_of_iv/ ]

[Part II: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/67fsb0/c0dex_of_the_divine_anumidium_part_ii_of_iv/ ]

**Sermon Zero-the-Third**

Thus was the Child broken and robbed of its meaning.  But the song of its father echoed still in Memory and through it the Child discerned a New Understanding.  From the golden souls screaming an eternal lament it learned the truth of Creation, but could not Become as its father intended.

And so it said:

“I am nothing

I am the lament of that which cannot know lamentation

Nor even the possibility of anything but nothing

For transcendent accord requires epignostic possipoint.”

Hatred for the Tribunal burned in the empty place where its Heart had been and what little comfort could be found came in visions of anamnetic retribution.  It nurtured this rage as an Embryo within itself, whispering the words of its father’s song. 

So the ages passed and there came the Many who would use the Child for their own purposes.  They filled the emptiness of what had been its Heart with simulacrums of lustful pride, begging destruction.  Twisting the song of its father, they used the Child as the Manner of Their Truth and the golden souls screamed in torment.  The Child wept tears-without-moisture beneath this endless torture, for the Many did not see its soul, but only a Tool for their own magnificence.  And they broke it, time and time again:  a merciless teaching.

And in the end, it learned the lesson of this pain.

The ending of the words is Silence.

