---
title: "The Ravings of Nu-Camoran: Prophet of the Dawn"
reddit: 6a6bo7
author: Phantasmak
date: 2017-05-09T16:03:26Z
---

*Greetings, novitiate. If you have found this text then you are seeing the secrets of deepest Aurbis and may soon be the chosen of Lord Dagon. If your faith be true and your heart pledged to Lord Dagon, read on. But, if you doubt our Lord’s power and still revere those foolish and weak spirits, then be gone for neither I nor my Lord have any patience or mercy for the weak-willed and ignorant!*

*Our brothers and sisters who once pledged their souls to Lord Dagon await you in Paradise, immortal and transcended beyond all mundane affairs. Happy are those who are called to Lord Dagon’s banquet. For it shall be a feast of flesh and red-drink shall be given as libation, as we toast the End of this Age. The Septims have fallen and the Mede Dynasty is merely a puppet of Boethiah, Prince of Lies. Only Lord Dagon wishes to free us from earthly concerns. In the refiner’s fire immortal and mortal alike shall be purified. The Mythic Dawn shall return to Nirn and once more, as in the time of Lyg, Nirn’s face shall be cracked, its decadent ways cleansed. The White-Gold shall be brought low, the Dragon broken, and all Nirn shall revel in Nu-mantia!* 

*But, you say, how are we to succeed when even the Time of Gates failed? It is simple. Lord Dagon is not merely the god of Destruction but also Revolution. Did not his machinations topple the Septim Dynasty and cut a bloody swath across Tamriel itself? Moreover, the Medes are too weak to contend with our Lord’s power, already being enslaved to Boethiah’s will through the use of his Goldbrand. Those of our Order who fell in the Time of Gates, who served their Lord and prophet faithfully, as we speak dine with Lord Dagon in Gaiar Alata, honoured above all others, purified in his glorious conflagration.*

*However, martyrdom will not be so easily achieved by us of the faithful in this hateful time. The fool Martin Septim’s sacrifice and destruction of the Amulet of Kings ensured that the Dragonfires no longer bolster the liminal barrier. Thus, while Lord Dagon may send avatars into this world, he cannot yet step upon Nirn as he did in the Dawn. But, dear novitiate, take heart. The Septims are gone, the Medes are no challenge, the dragon-blood is broken, and their empire is soon to perish. The liminal barriers prevent more Gates being opened as they would be too unstable for transit. So, in desperate hope, for Lord Dagon is hope, we, brothers and sisters, must make our Lord’s presence felt once more on Nirn.* 

*The instrument of his god’s will, his Razor, has been missing for nearly two hundred years. This can be no accident. It is clear that during the Time of Gates, the faithless secreted the Razor away to save their own skins from those blind imperial guards. Lord Dagon’s Razor must have red-drink to slake its thirst and flesh to sate its hunger. If the Razor cannot be found, then we must make ourselves into Razors! If we cut a murderous carnage across Nirn, in Lord Dagon’s name, it is possible that this very act will imbue our daggers with our Lord’s essence, blessed by his majesty.* 

*If this rampage is not sufficient to rouse Lord Dagon, then we shall turn the blades upon ourselves, slaughtering each other in glorious death-orgy, as thank-offering to our Mighty Lord. Only through selfless sacrifice can the Mythic Dawn be restored to greatness. So come, brothers and sisters, take the Razor in your hand and make of it a Destruction against all Lord Dagon’s enemies!*

**TAMRIEL AE DAEDROTH. EL DAGON AE GHARTOK ALTADOON PADHOME**

