---
title: "the Monolith of Seven Virtues --- an Interpretation of the Spirit of Boethiah"
reddit: 6ak36e
author: saufall
date: 2017-05-11T13:25:23Z
---

I. Cherish thy Hunger, for it is what sparketh the Will to survive; the First Serpent awakeneth in the void and eateth itself with Gluttony, and then he learneth the art to look inside his stomach. That too shall make thee.
Do not reject the hardship of life, as there is no easy way to prominence. Hunt like a wild Beast and be ever cautious and cunning. 


II. Cherish thy Greed, for it is what buildeth the fane; the King-in-the-Sun erecteth a great Pyramid in his image with the Land and the Treasure he hath found within, and then he learneath the art to preserve the Hunger within his Flesh. That too shall make thee. Do not restrain thy Desire, take as thou wilt. Hoard the Treasure in thy Fane like sharpening a Sword. 

III. Cherish thy Melancholy, for it is what teacheth the value of mortality, the Wise-Woman of Chimer gaineth the Vision of the Snake through solemn meditations, and then he leadeth the Chimer to the East to become Dunmer in search of an ephemeral Bloom. That too shall make thee. Do not dwell in the hours of Happiness, for optimism causeth one to lose Sight of the Enemy. Be inebriated with Moon Sugar and sing Melodies of Tragedy. The greatest Enemy of Mortals is Time.

IV. Cherish thy Anger, for it is what correcteth the wrong and vindicateth the right. Pelin-El was driven by his anger to eat the Stars as if a great Beast; in a short duration the army of elves were annihilated and transformed into charred corpses. Behold! The Mortal Monster wieldeth the Scythe and the Crook like a Pharaoh, and as his Image the lineage of Setpim and the Empire of Men was shaped. That too shall make thee. Fight bravely in War with ferocity. Kill those who oppose thee and conquer those who are afraid of thee. Raise a Storm of Blood.



V. Cherish thy Will to Conquer, for it is what distinguishes a Man from a Woman. Boethiah was driven by his lust to rape Trinimac the King of Elves from behind and make him whine like a virgin. They mated until Trinimac was pregnant with two children, the son VEHK and the daughter MALAK. And they later became the progenitor of Dunmer and Orsimer, which made Boethiah father. That too shall make thee. Do not be or succumb to the wiles of Women. Tame the womanish with a Scourge. Make them slaves in thy Harem and make them moan as if dying or in a Labour. 

VI. Cherish thy Solitude, for it is what maketh a Man noble and a Woman despicable without. A Hero striveth against the whole Aurbis in eternal Solitude, and that maketh him Master of his own Fate. The Followers of Boethiah perfect themselves through struggling against the Pain and the Suffering of existence alone, and he who hath survived would be called a King among Kings by the Herd. That too shall make thee. Do not worship the Idols of the Cities and States, adore only thy own Image. For in thy own Image there is Sithis which starteth the World.

O. Cherish thy Lust, for it is the beginning of All and the Queen of all Virtues. It is thy Crown of Stars. It driveth and createth everything; it stoppeth and destroyeth everything. The Lust of et'Ada is both the Birth and the Doom of Mundus. It is Pangenetor and the Panphage in one, the Nimbus that surround the horrible Contour of Mephala. It is the Thread of the Web, the Note of Symphony. And the Lust is within thy Will, and the Lust is the Will. Let the Phalli rain down the Earth like Fire and tear and kill and burn the Tender and the Vulnerable until the Nirn is pregnant with a multitude of Children. Let there be many erected Phalli on the Earth, and in the murmuring Incantations of the Priests, in the armed Hand of Soldiers, in the bulging Purse of Merchants, in the melancholic Songs of Bards, in the empty Hand of Beggars and murderous Knives of Assassins. Let them all mate with each other and produce lusty Children like their Parents. Love and slake thy Lust; Love under the Will.



