---
title: "Ruminations on Reman &amp; the Red Diamond"
reddit: 6de89s
author: The_Ruski
date: 2017-05-26T02:28:08Z
---

I got to thinking about Reman and his forehead jewel.

We know from *Where were you when the Dragon Broke?* that the Amulet of Kings contains an "oversoul" of Emperors and Empresses. They exist as many, but also as one.

And we know that they can be communicated with, through some mystical effort.

It's probably not an easy feat for normal people. But this is Reman. He was born with the Chim-el Ababal upon his brow, upon his *forehead*.

That seems very much like a third eye to me.

And we know that the concept of the "third eye" exists in TES lore, as Vivec mentions having the "third eye's fire" in *What My Beloved Taught Me*.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_eye

It is the mind's eye, or the inner eye.

I could imagine that, through this boon, Reman was able to peer into the depths of his psyche (with miraculous insight) and access the wisdom, memories, experience, and counsel of his ancestors whenever he so chose to. *They all lived within him*.

In a way, Reman is *all of the Dragon Emperors*, a divine aggregate.

In a way, Reman *is* the Amulet of Kings (renewed into flesh-covenant).

And sometimes, the Amulet of Kings will do as it will.

Just look at the *Shonni-Etta*.

"Reman took the knight's helm off during this accusation to see the vulgar mouth more clearly, the lips and teeth that framed him to this barbaric angle, and then the Chim-el Adabal in his forehead erupted into balefire, saying, 'None But Ourself.'"

Reman was accused of being unworthy by the Colovian rebel. Bad idea. At that moment, all the Dragon Emperors within Reman, within the jewel that *is* him, stirred into one. None but OURSELF, not "ourselves."

The Amulet was saying: "I AM THE KING AND THE SYMBOL OF THE KING."

That's why the dude's so crazy at times. HE IS CYRODIIL COME. He is the culture of the land, East and West both. The decadence of Niben and the iron hand of Colovia.

Maybe that's why Alessia fled after Reman's birth in dirt. She _knew_ what Reman would turn out like. She has walked for centuries, seeing and knowing Cyrodiil and its ethos intimately.

"You want a god-king? Fine, you get a god-king. Don't complain if he turns out to become a psycho of the highest order. You, the people of Cyrodiil, are at fault for that."

And consider Reman being born as a man (indeed, he is called "Reman Born-a-Man" in the *Shonni-Etta*). How could you be anything *other* than an adult when you're born with the entire effort of an Empire in your mind? As your *very being*.
