---
title: "[Apocrypha] the Hist, an Imperial Study"
reddit: 6f10c2
author: avakinumibus
date: 2017-06-03T12:44:50Z
---

*Arielle Armeki, Grand Councillor of the University of Bruma, the natural research center of the Empire, circa 4E 203*

What are the Hist Trees? God's in the shape of trees? Malevolent alien beings? Normal Trees? The purpose of this report is to answer that question.

1st Observation (3 First Seed, 4E 201):
First sample found inside Gideon city walls.These trees are massive in girth and height. They tower over the marsh, imposing themselves upon the landscape. Just have very thick roots (likely to keep hold of the sludge the Marsh has instead of soil). Very rough bark, almost cutting to the skin if one rubs the bark with an ungloved hand. Leaves are green and healthy, with locals confirming that they stay green all year (not sure if climate or will of trees?) This tree was said to have gone rogue, breaking free of the collective consciousness shared by the Hist, around the time that Umbriel arrived in Tamriel. I wonder if this rogue tree had anything to do with it, as Imperial reports from Emperor Attrebus Mede and his bride Annäig Hoinart, say that the dread island contained Hists of its own, and that an Argonian by the name of Mere-Glim (Slight Glimmer in Cyrodiilic) used them to take Umbriel into a plane of Oblivion inhabited by Hists.

2nd Observation (14th Morning Star, 4E 202):
Observed an An Xileel ritual today near the city of Gideon. They called it the "Xal Uxith" ritual, which translates to Sacred Nest Ritual. The Pakseech (shaman/leader), told me that I must keshu (stand aside) as Outlanders and the Lukiul (Assimilated, meaning Argonians who are not a part of traditional Saxhleel culture) could not participate in the ritual. The young Argonians were hatched from their eggs, and brought to the Hist Trees, who, at the call of the Pakseech, began secreting a foul, dark amber liquid. I assume this is Hist Sap, because the tiny Argonians began to lick it from the tree. At once, they lost their lizard frame, and instead became more humanoid before my very eyes. These Hist are able to speed up the aging of the Argonians by a very large margin. The Pakseech told me that the Lukiul do gain humanoid form, but at a vastly slower rate than the An-Xileel Saxhleel. He also spoke about their connection to the Hists. He described it as a hive mind that is in the back of your head all the time, up until it is used by the Hists for communication, such as when the Argonians were called back to Black Marsh to fight Dagon's hordes. 

3rd Observation (13th Suns Dusk, 4E202):
For my last observation, I chose to see a Hist far from civilization. After taking the roots (A fairly disgusting but useful means of getting around the Marsh by riding in the belly of a giant grub-like creature until you get where you need to go) to an area past Gideon, I entered the Deep Marsh. After my body guards had disposed of more than a few Nagas, we finally found what we had been searching for. The Hist we found was massive, and had a large group of Argonians tending to it. The caretakers were aggressive at first, but settled down once our Cyrodiilic to Jel interpreter told them we were only here to study. These Argonians told us they have spent their entire lives tending this Hist, and that it is of great importance. When asked why this specific Hist was so important, the Argonians explained that this Hist was responsible for the Tribes' Pakseechs' right to rule. They come and lick the SAP of the Ur-Hist, where the develop an even stronger bond to the Hist. They are also gifted with the wisdom to rule. This trees sap is more potent than any other Hist Tree. Infants who lick this trees sap would likely perish. 

Conclusion:
The Hist of Black Marsh are no normal trees. They possess remarkable intelligence when compared to humanoids and communicate telepathically with their charges, the Saxhleel. They are essential for the growth of young Argonians in Black Marsh. The An-Xileel perform rituals involving the Hists, such as the crowning of a new Pakseech and the birth of new Saxhleel. They also have powers to change the physical make up of the Argonians, even after maturity, as evidenced by the behemoths used against Mehrunes Dagon in his failed attempt to invade Black Marsh during the Oblivion Crisis. The Hists are sentient beings indeed. 
