---
title: "[C0DA-Apocrypha] The short time of peace"
reddit: 6f6t0c
author: Sawbones194
date: 2017-06-04T11:01:16Z
---

3rd Era 1

The burly Cyro-Nord Valerius Stormheart wandered along the coast of the Abacian Sea, breathing the salty air deep into his lungs. After the devastating war against the Khajiit and Argonians, which lasted for the last decades, Valerius had finally regained the feeling of true peace in his heart and he smiled. The new guard-system of the empire, which also patrolled the lands country roads, gave the entire people a sense of security. Even his bearded wife Mjoll Stormhearth which came directly from the homeland of Skyrim and whose body had only to get used to the warm air of the jungle before her beard fell, finally felt safe and secure again.

"Legat Stormheart!" A voice shouted behind Valerius as he glanced at the horizon. He turned and a cyro with too much armor sprinted up the cliff to him. Valerius relieved him from the disgrace of his physical weakness, and came to him a few steps to help him up the cliff.

"A retreat to the imperial city, sir!" Cried the thin soldier, hastily breathing, and handed Valerius a data pad, on which a map of the uninhabitable island of Vvardenfell had been shown.

"What is it, soldier?"

"Sir! The island, the volcano! Both become habitable. Green pastures, drinkable water from rivers and animals! Gods fucking animals, sir!"

Valerius looked at the soldier. "Are you sure?"

"Shit no?! But the scholars are! And also the Valenwood, sir! The impenetrable forest wall is lit. He can be walked on." 

Suddenly a gentle drumming from the sea sounded before the two legionaries. They pulled their rifles and glanced along the horizon. From the impenetrable fog of the Abecean Sea suddenly a dark shadow appeared, followed by many others. The soldier handed the legat binoculars, and he used them. On the crystal ships in front of them were human beings, with sharp ears and colorful skin color. Gold, silver, white, green and gray. On the front, a Gray-Golden man hovered in a tailor's seat, surrounded by golden glow.

Valerius lowered his binoculars and looked at the young soldier.

"What is there, sir?"

"An invasion of the inhabitants of the summerset-Islands. We are under attack ..."
