---
title: "At Time's End [PART 2]"
reddit: 6fj7d4
author: Vitamin_gun
date: 2017-06-06T03:10:41Z
---

We set out on the first of Frostfall, and spent only 3 days at sea. As we neared Atmora, we noticed strange things floating in the water. We drew closer, and when we pulled alongside them, I could see that they were longships. They were very crude, and obviously ancient, however they were in pristine condition. All aboard the ships were men, women, and children frozen solid. They showed no signs of life, but no signs of decay either. They were forever-locked in their routines and rituals, unmoving and unblinking. The ships silently bobbed on the frigid waves, their sails like dancing ghosts on the wind. We passed many of these ships as we sailed towards the coast. The only sounds were the winds, our oars, and our breaths.

Soon we reached the continent, and sailed along the coast looking for a good spot to anchor. We spotted a settlement and set our sights there. When we reached the settlement, we could see it was made in an architecture similar to that of the many ancient barrows and ruins that dot Skyrim. We silently pulled into the docks, and were greeted by men, women, and children frozen mid-sprint, with fear on their faces and screams trapped in their lungs. Scenes of history were locked in place, right in front of my eyes. A man leaping for an embarking boat, the kiss of two lovers, an old man trampled underfoot, and a crowd running for the docks. It was the most surreal experience of my life up to that point, but more was yet to come.
