---
title: "At Time's End [PART 5]"
reddit: 6gy66p
author: Vitamin_gun
date: 2017-06-13T06:36:21Z
---

I snuck out of the chamber where my men slept with little difficulty. Fraeling stirred in his sleep and mumbled incoherently, alerting me, but he was simply entranced in a dream. The rest of them were fast asleep.
 
After I left our chamber, I began to navigate my way through the temple. It was reminiscent of the ruins back home, but still pristine. Upon the walls, there were reliefs depicting Atmora’s past. Images of mammoth hunts, dragon rituals, and great cities lined the walls. Further into the temple, I discovered an immense chamber, larger than the throne room in the Palace of the Kings. Carved into one of the walls was a mural illuminated by grand braziers. I was enthralled by its scale and its craftsmanship, which words can scarce describe.
 
“Quite impressive, is it not?” said a voice behind me.
 
When I turned to look, I saw that Krahonik was standing in the entrance to the chamber.
 
“Very,” I replied, snapping back to reality, “How old is it?”
 
“Nearly as old as Rah-Wahlstrunmah itself,” he said.
 
“I’m sorry, what?”
 
“Krosis. Forgive me. It is almost as old as what your people call Adamantine.”
 
“You mean Direnni Tower? In High Rock?”
 
“Indeed. The Tower of the gods themselves, where Daan-Lovaas had his heart ripped out by Bormahu.”
 
“Who are these people you’re talking about?” I asked.
 
“Daan-Lovaas, the Doom-Drum. I believe you Nords call him ‘Shor.’ And Bormahu, the Father. Tamrielics often call him ‘Akatosh’ or ‘Auriel’,” he explained.
 
“Why do you call the gods by those names?” I asked.
 
“It is what they are called in Dovahzul, the language of the dragons. The dragons ruled over Atmora and lived in harmony with the Atmorans. The dragons, or dov, passed their beliefs down to us. With their beliefs came their language, which was intertwined with the language of men. You Tamrielics have forgotten about it’s impact, but tey-dotiid, history, reveals all.”
 
“What do you mean?” I asked.
 
“For an example, koraav, observe, Ysgramor, the hero of the Nords. Ysgramor is a folaas-rot, corruption, of his true name. While he lived, his men called him Iiz-Grahmoro. He was a fahdon, a friend of mine in the Sonaak-Gron, priesthood,” Krahonik said.
 
He paused for a moment, as if he was transported back in time, and then walked towards the mural, saying, “This carving is in-wahlaan, a masterpiece, of Atmoran culture. It depicts the overthrowing of the Fahliil, or elves, from Atmora with the help of the dovah. The Fahliil saw men as mere beasts, and treated us as such. Bormahu took pity on us and sent his favored children, the dovah, to help us break our bonds. Upon driving the Fahliil out of Atmora, we began to worship the dov. Every Atmoran learned of the Fahliil-Graan as a child. To show our appreciation for the dov, we also built this. A monument to their Unslaad-Dun, everlasting grace.”
 
“It’s very impressive, thank you for teaching me some of your history,” I said.
 
“Nii-Losdiikogaan, it is nice to have tinvaak, conversation, with another soul. It’s been centuries since the last person visited Atmora,” replied Krahonik, “It saddens me that you must leave.”
 
“Me too, priest,” I said, “However I’d rather not end up like your people.”
 
“I understand,” he said, “It is not an ideal existence for most.”
 
There was another bout of silence.
 
“Why aren’t you frozen solid, priest?” I asked.
 
“I am the Tiid-Dein. It is my heyv, duty, to fight against Daan-Lovaas and help free Bormahu and his children,” he said, “I have already liberated all of Atmora. Those who value their mortal possessions over their spiritual liberation will be doomed to non-existence. When all are free, only then shall my soul go to Fin-Nilzeimlein, the Void.”
 
“I see,” I said, trying to keep my calm after realizing that I was having a friendly discussion with a man responsible for killing countless people.
 
“Indeed,” said Krahonik, “I do believe it is time for me to escort your party to your ship.”
 
The trek to the ship was uneventful, and rushed. I had had enough of this frozen hellhole.
 
As soon as we said our farewells to Krahonik, I commanded to proceed to the capital as fast as possible. The sail home was all a blur, and so I don’t remember much. However, I do remember the events on the continent quite well. If you don’t believe me, go there and pay a visit to the time stopper himself.
