---
title: "A Response to Brother Caius"
reddit: 6i042d
author: Phantasmak
date: 2017-06-18T15:10:11Z
---

For the context of this post see [here](https://redd.it/5x4s8e).

After reading Brother Caius' treatise on the Nature of Ghosts, Ghouls, Wraiths and other Phantasms, I have discovered significant flaws in his theory on the entities of the Otherworld. Through all my research I have never once found a connection between the manner of death and the resultant after-life. It is known from Daedrological Studies that a person's after-life is that to which their **AE** is most strongly aligned. I see no reason why the intervention of 'Daedric cultists' would change this. Except for cases of soul entrapment, the **AE** will always progress to its favoured after-life, provided that its requirements are met. 

Thus, the notion that cultists are preventing **AEs** from reaching their Paradise is absurd. This is especially insulting to we Dunmer who can commune with our ancestors. Our honoured elders are not malevolent spirits nor are they a result of some macabre or godless ritual. They find repose in the Otherworld; the Realm of All Spirits. However, the Three Good Daedra taught us how to recall our ancestors to the Mundus, with no other races being able to do this. Yes, it is true that Dunmer ancestors may be bound to serve their family but only if they were disobedient or dishonourable in life.

In short, we revere our ancestors and their teachings and find it abhorrent that we are compared to Necromancers! Since joining the College of Whispers I have experienced much more tolerance and understanding. Clearly, Brother Caius is a relic of a bygone age. From all accounts, even in his own day Caius was a controversial Cyrodiil, there being records of him being arrested for ranting outside Anvil's Chapel of Dibella for 9 days straight!

In conclusion, Caius is in error and the Otherworld's mysteries forever remain unexplored.

*Talavas Sathranyll*

*Master Conjurer at the College of Whispers*

*4E135*
