---
title: "Why We Hate Orcs"
reddit: 6i6dm7
author: EoLong
date: 2017-06-19T13:25:36Z
---

Why We Hate Orcs
by Eorlund Quick-Arrow

Of all the races in Tamriel, the Orsimer are probably the most widely hated. When many people think of hating Orcs, they think of the Bretons and the Redguards and their numerous attempts at sacking Orsinium.  However it should not be forgotten that we, the proud children of Kyne, have a long history of fighting the pariah folk.

This conflict has two primary causes. Firstly the Orcs are just as much Elves as the rest of their pointy eared cousins, was it not Elves that slaughtered our people in Saarthal. And secondly, they seem to think they  have a right to land in Skyrim.  They not only try to claim land in the western Reach but at one time even tried to conquer Falkreath. Shor bless Hakkvilld Yashnag-Slayer for driving them out. To this day the tusked menace plagues our fair land. They endure not by their strength but under the protection of the Empire. 

 In even the oldest of our tales we have been fighting to free our land from these beasts.  Many Nords have heard the old tale of how Shor defeated Alduin and defied Orkey’s  age curse.  Not only did the Orc’s God try to destroy us Nords but he also awoke the great Dragon. This event alone is justification enough for vengeance on these tusked transgressors. Even worse they claim their God is the one who ripped out Shor's heart. Such blasphemy against our lost God-king cannot go unpunished.

I will be visiting my local Jarl and requesting that he allow us to ignore the Imperial citizenship granted to the Orcs and finally exterminate this plague and I ask all true children of Skyrim to do the same.  With Kyne’s blessing, our land will finally be free. 
