---
title: "The Many Phases of Khajiit: Pahmar"
reddit: 6ydq51
author: Kevaar
date: 2017-09-06T05:33:44Z
---

You want to know more about the furstocks? This one explains.

The Pahmar are an elegant cat, always defying outlander expectations. They look like lithe little leopards, but think like great men, yes? They are always chasing the refined life. Some Pahmar women, they like to ask a noble Khajiit to become part of his or her entourage, so long as they can wear the gold collars and the diamond-tip claws. Much vanity for a cat with no fingers!

Very different from Pahmar-Raht in this way. They grow smaller and slower, and are not as interested in food in cubhood the way the hungry Pahmar-Raht are. Only when they hit their growing years, their tween-years, and then they become as wild and hungry as their cousins. “Act your size, not like a Raht,” say many a Pahmar mother to her Pahmar children, and for good reason! This one invites you to try to control a wild kit after so many years of being too good.

Some outlanders who come to this land, they tell us how very well-behaved our senche-tigers are, doing all the hunting, herding, tracking, guarding, and pulling of carts like their drooling dogs do at home. Pahmar good natured, so Pahmar not mind the confusion, for any Khajiit enjoys a good trick and outlanders who think them only beasts soon missing lots of coin. 

Pahmar even sometimes be lap-cats, but outlanders not understand what that means in Elsweyr. Better that way, this one thinks. Outlanders so squeamish about the nightly pleasures sometimes. But Pahmar smarter than that, not get themselves into trouble like men and mer, unless they have a skooma problem. Very bad, Pahmar with skooma problem, for who will count their coins if they cannot impress a proper clerk-cat with the fingered paws to do it for them? 

The Pahmar will often team up with fingered Khajiit, you see. They also like to be assistants of cooks and alchemists and perfume-makers, telling their masters when things smell right with their keen noses. 

Very good bounty hunters too, though this is not always an honorable job. Some Pahmar still want to be Pahmar-Raht even after hearing those warnings from their mothers! In wartimes, yes, Pahmar often doing this, and often giving lifts to Tojay and Dagi and other little furstocks light enough to be carried. 

But during peacetime? There is little reason to be thirsty of the red-drink and so rude with the teeth. At least that is what the clanmother says to Rashida, but then clanmothers always sheathe their claws in polite company, as the saying goes, and Rashida believes there is more wit than wise to clanmother telling Khajiit not to use their natural endowments.
