---
title: "Herbalist's Guide to Cyrodiil I - County Bruma and the Northern Highlands"
reddit: 73zym0
author: veloticy
date: 2017-10-03T12:09:08Z
---

**Herbalist's Guide to Cyrodiil I - County Bruma and the Northern Highlands**

Bruma has a reputation for being near-inhospitable to all but “*savage Nord heathens*.” It is true that Bruma is home to many devout worshippers of the so-called “*Ancient* Nordic Pantheon,” who allegedly sacrifice their children every full moon, among other outrageous accusations. However, the people of Bruma are generally very accepting to newcomers, and will be the first to offer a hand to any travellers in need. The people, unlike the County Bruma itself, are warm and welcoming, hardy, and happy to down a mug of ale or mead with a newcomer.

Bruma is a colder and harsher region compared to most of Nibenay, though its beauty is still visible in the lush boreal forests and frost covered mountains sowed throughout the continental terrain. These forests are home to a wealth of many unique ingredients useful to any career alchemist. Below I have listed several of the indigenous plants, fungi (and other less-conventional) ingredients with ripe potential as alchemical reagents:

*****

**Silverside Perch**

Originally only indigenous to southern parts of Skyrim, these invasive fish have been brought by waterfowl during their migration for the winter. They are commonly found in reservoirs and ponds throughout the foothills around Bruma. They can be easily identified by their silver underside and its large, rectangular caudal fin.

In my travels, I’ve never found one to be longer than a single span; because of this, there is no need to gut or prepare the fish in any way. They are quite useful in easing the swelling caused by Rockjoint, a common ailment due to the harsh and often vertical terrain of the Jerall mountains.

Of equally important note is the roe of the Silverside Perch, as its eggs can be whisked into a solution that, when ingested, promotes healthy growth in adolescents and younger adults, and even reversing aging in the elderly. Due to this, it has become a commodity among the nobles in Cyrodiil and High-Rock; with them willing to pay exuberant fees for even a dollop of the substance. Because of this, the market has become laden with fraud, as less “professionals” individuals pass off common household ingredients as “miracle cures.”

**Giant’s Toe**

As the name implies, Giant’s Toes are harvested off of (recently deceased) Giants. These creatures are a common sight among the highlands of Cyrodiil and Skyrim, but are particularly abundant in the upper-reaches of the Jerall mountains. While generally peaceful, they are quite hostile towards anyone or anything who would encroach on their territory, or their trusty steeds, the Mammoth.

With all that said, locating a Giant is nary half the task; as common-sense suggest, their name is quite a tactful descriptor to their immense size and stature. If that wasn’t enough, most Giants live in a pastoral society, herding their mammoths in large groups for protection from those who might do them harm (like one intending to harvest their toes.) Combat is not my forté, so I will neglect any resolutions to this issue, aside from my own personal technique: *hire someone else to do it for you*.

Although nearly as revolting as revolting things can be, the Toes of Giants can be pureéd into a paste that, when applied to wounds, can stop the spread of infections. It is important to note that while the Giant’s hallux is generally the most potent toe, the other ones are still worth collecting for treating minor ailments or cuts and scrapes.

**Milk Thistle**

Milk Thistle, one of many Thistle plants dotted around Tamriel, is almost uniquely indigenous to Northern Cyrodiil. Old records from my predecessors’ predecessors indicate that at one point in time (probably around the Second Era,) Milk Thistle was a common sight in all nine provinces. I personally speculate the cause of this to be fragmentation; as the species spread further and further out, they adjusted to different climates, with the Milk Thistle remaining in Southern Skyrim and Northern Cyrodiil retaining its slightly pinkish tint and “determinate” shape. Others adapted to warmer, less harsh climates, and took on a more “bushlike” appearance from the ease of access to sunlight and nutrients.

Regardless, Milk Thistle is an important ingredient to the culture of Bruma; it has a long-term effect of improving vision, specifically at night or in caves. I have met many hunters who swear by it as a gift to man from Kyne herself. The bloom itself has a pungent smell that I have found useful in waking fainted patients, while I have found giving the stem to a patient to chew on to be very effective in reducing pain.

**Tinder Polypore**

This fungus grows exclusively on Nibenean firs in the northern Valus mountains. It’s a slight misconception that they (and most fungi) grow only on the south side of the tree. While this is *generally* the case, the truth is that they grow where shade is most abundant, and that is *generally* always on the north side, due to cosmology that the Dwemer would be much more equipped to explain.

While they may look like any common mushroom, they display a layered appearance of dark brown stripes that gradually turn to a rust-red color as you come out from the center of the cap.

I have found the fungus to be particularly noteworthy in its use as a stimulant; in small doses to help with depression or insomnia, though in large doses can be used to encourage patients near-death to “hold on” a bit longer. When dissolved in pitch-bile or other acidic solutions and then evaporated, it can be used as the solute in a potion that grants the imbiber temporary invisibility.

**Hart Antlers**

Long ago, under the First Empire of the Nords, when much of Colovia was under the autonomy of the High-King, the fauna of the forest were considered the personal property of the nobility. The Jarls valued their “venison” (which could refer to any animal, including but not limited to wolves, hare, pheasants, and geese,) but all were second to none to the precious Red-Tailed Stag of northern Colovia. Those accused of attempting to hunt without paying the proper tithe would be sentenced to an ordeal (which almost always resulted in death.)

Fortunately for us, the Empire is much less strict about the aforementioned “Forest Laws” of early Skyrim, and generally leave hunting as an affair between the Divines and the hunter himself. I’ve found most hunters willing to part with the antlers of all but “prized” bucks— for a small fee, of course. 

One fairly common use is in a locally-coined “Stallion’s Potion,” the common-man’s term for a vasodilator; a substance used to relax your arteries and allow blood to flow more freely. As such, it can be used to lower blood-pressure, or, in many cases, enhance one’s prowess in bed. Calcifying the ground-up remains also has the potential to make an effective poison, which slowly seeps its way into your targets muscles, causing them to cramp and spasm.

