---
title: "A Murder In Morrowind 13"
reddit: 75k4tq
author: TheBravestarr
date: 2017-10-10T21:01:43Z
---

**A Dream by Candlelight**

It was around midnight that I finally made my way back home. I had been allowed to leave the House of Earthly Delights, but no carriage nor would any caravan allow me to travel with them. I had no doubt that it was Falvis’s doing. It was hours of stumbling on mud and packed-stone roads that I finally made it back home. My toes had developed blisters and my knees ached. I was glad to be done.
I was finished. The investigation had officially come to a dead end.

Falvis Halon, Faerdae Hircite, and Friune Hlera. F.H. My three suspects. Hadn’t Cassius’s letter been directed towards an FH? I was certain that one of them was the killer, although I had no proof or any course of action to take in regards to this. Falvis had made it abundantly clear that Faerdae would face the punishment for this. Once that was done then I suppose it was back to Mournhold for me. Back to my desk and to staring at the wall for hours until it was time to come home. Pitiful. 
	
I kicked off my boots as I entered the door and ignored the mud that splattered everywhere. I didn’t care. I did check for the Morag Tong girl this time. I was alone. 
	
I lit several candles on the table and cut a slab of hard bread from the loaf on the table. I ate it with a bit of salted fish and hard cheese and gulped down a cup of water nosily. My body hurt.
	
I stared into the candlelight and considered all the elements that made up this case. I thought that if I just went over it enough, then an answer would present itself. That, miraculously, I would have an epiphany and then it would become clear.
	
FH. FH. FH. 

Who was this FH? Both Faerdae and Falvis had something belonging to Cassius. And of Friune? His shifty nature and conflicting stories did him no favors. Faerdae and Friune too, possessed a potential murder weapon. And while Falvis had no weapon that I could inspect, I had no doubt that he could easily dispose of any weapon that was incriminating. The letter could’ve been directed to any of them.
	
What of the amulet found on Cassius? Why have I heard such conflicting tales of his conversion? By his nature, I never would have thought him capable of turning on the Divines. The amulet was potentially Friune’s, but if so, why was the cord intact? It couldn’t have been torn and it couldn’t have been given to him. There was no way that a temple priest would part with such a thing.
	
What of the poison in his system? There was a clear indication by the lesions on his brain that he had possessed some form of toxin in his system. Was it through the stab wound, or was it something else? 
	
And the slave! Why did she possess his dagger? Faerdae says she potentially stole it from him during the sale, but why? Why would a child steal a dagger in the first place? If she was sold to Cassius, how did she escape? If she was incapable of killing, then whose blood stained the dagger we had found in her possession? What did she see that night in the alley?
	
Falvis, Friune, and Faerdae. FH. They all had a motive. They all had unaccounted for time or unreliable witnesses. They all possessed the ability and the cunning. All three were known enemies of Cassius. 
	
The Tong too was a suspect, but so far I had no proof on them. The girl, the assassin, had given me some serious considerations in regards to their involvement in this. The Tong were known poisoners, and they certainly had the motive. Cassius was determined to oust them as Brotherhood collaborators, and wouldn’t believe anything to the contrary.
	
But as she highlighted, why kill him? It was far easier to keep him alive and under their thumb! So why would they kill him?
	
I wracked my brain and tore my hair out. There was something I was missing here, but I was too blind and exhausted to see it.
	
I was deep in thought, mind twisting and turning as dark as the storm that raged outside. My thoughts were broken though suddenly from a knocking at my door. I was annoyed at this sudden interruption and I briskly stood up and headed towards the door, knocking a chair over in my haste. Roughly I pulled it open, and I saw that it was my dear friend Deerkethus.
	
“Friend Gan,” He spoke and raised his brow in surprise, “Did I startle you?”
	
“No, no,” I spoke and turned to pick up the fallen chair, “I just wasn’t expecting you. What are you doing here?”
	
“My master sent me here shortly after you to prepare the way,” He stepped and wiped water from his ears, “Paperwork and the like for…tomorrow.”
	
“The execution you mean?” I said bluntly.
	
“Yes,” He agreed and sat down at the table. I considered him for a moment, poured both of us a drink, and sat down at the opposite end.
	
“Got anything to eat?” He muttered and took a swig of the strong brandy. I took stock of everything I had to eat, which was everything on the table and shook my head.
	
“Unless you like cold fish and hard bread.” I offered him the plate of my leftovers which he eyed suspiciously. 
	
We sat there in silence for what seemed to be half an hour. Deerkethus had given in at some point and gnawed occasionally at the bit of fish I had left. For my part, I occupied myself with my meal of choice. Brandy, brandy, and even more brandy. 
	
“You need to get out town by tomorrow night.” He finally said after spitting out a bone.
	
“Oh?” I said, “Your master getting a bit nervous?”
	
“Yes, and he hates to be so,” Deerkethus pointed at me, “You’ll never get him serjo, but nonetheless, you make him nervous. He’s dangerous when he’s backed into a corner.”
	
“Is he now?” I sipped, “Am I the first Imperial he’s threatened or…”
	
“Stop,” He said slowly, “Stop with that. The investigation’s over. The killer will be hanged and then it’ll be all over. Go back to Mournhold and be thankful that it’s all over.”
	
“You and I both know that it’s far from over!” I said, “Too many questions left unanswered. Too many suspects not fully cleared!”
	
“Yes, but don’t forget. My master is the Constable here, and empowered by the local magistrate.” He said, “While you are involved due to the position of the victim, it is the magistrate who is empowered to arrest and try the suspect. If he says that the Wood Elf is the murderer then it is so.”
	
“How could you defend that slaving fuck!?” I yelled. Deerkethus looked at me with a hint of mixed emotions. I saw indignation, hurt, and offense all at once. I remembered what Falvis had said too. That he and Deerkethus had grown up almost as brothers. No doubt I had nigh insulted his own family.
	
“I never knew my family in Black Marsh.” He said after a minute, “My egg was apparently stolen from the home Hist and sold around Morrowind before my master’s family bought it as a gift for their son. My first memories were of me and him playing together. He’s like a brother Gan.”
	
“A brother who owns you.” I pointed out.
	
“And yet he remains my only connection here in Morrowind.” He said, “My one defender. I would do anything for him serjo. Anything.”
	
“And what of the other Argonians?” I asked, “Your fellows who don’t serve such benevolent masters?”
	
“Their station is regrettable.” He shrugged, “But realize that I hold no kinship with them. I was raised in a Dunmer household and have shared their culture all my life. I consider myself more Dunmer than Argonian at this point. I know not what it is to be an Argonian.”
	
“Ah yes,” I nodded sarcastically, “You worship their gods yes?”
	
“Praise Almsivi.” He made the sign of the Tribunal and smiled his Argonian smile.
	
“Absolutely pathetic!” I yelled out. My anger was simmering over and at the point of bursting. I, of course, perfectly understood Deerkethus’s position. But for an Argonian of honor he was downright frustrating when it came to defending that fat fuck. What’s worse is the level of cognitive dissonance necessary to justify his servitude to such a despicable individual.
	
“You sit here all sanctimonious and advocate the condemning of an individual without sufficient evidence!” I yelled at Deerkethus, “You defend the honor of a man without any honor to speak of! How dare you sit here and act as if that’s perfectly acceptable?”
	
Deerkethus stared at me with a mute expression and said nothing. He opened his close his fist several time in a visible effort of restraint.
	
“And you’re so much better?” He asked finally, “Should I hold my allegiance to the ideals of the Empire?”
	
“Yes!” I agreed. I knew it was outrageous of me to ask, but he was my friend, and I couldn’t bear to see him scrape and serve such a vile person.
	
“He’s a slaver and corrupt!” I said, “Totally unworthy of his office and his corruption is a vile anti-thesis to everything I stand for!”
	
“You!?” Deerkethus stood up in anger. “Well let me tell you a bit about you Inquisitor! You say you stand for truth and justice, but in my time I’ve seen you do nothing but lie and coerce your way through this investigation. When you have nothing left, you respond with violence and force. You have skill, I will admit and a keen mind. But too often you let emotion guide your actions and you resort to a brutishness reserved for common thugs. In essence, Inquisitor, you are endemic of everything wrong with Imperials!”
	
“Oh?” I was angry now, “And I suppose Falvis is a better alternative?”
	
“He possesses the guile and subtlety that you do not.” He said, “Unlike you, his violence is focused. Despite his misgivings, Balmora has never been more peaceful. Crime is at an all-time low.”
	
“I don’t care about his track records as a lawman! He’s a slaver pure and simple!” I cried, “Worse actually! For Talos sake Deerkethus he sold a child! He’s a constable, he’s supposed to be better than that!”
	
“He is a Dunmer.” Deerkethus replied, “That is their way. He may not be p
erfect, but he is my master.”
	
“He’s a thug Deerkethus, plain and simple.”
	
“Yet a thug who get results.” Deerkethus said, “Unlike you.”
	
“Get out.” I was hurt. I walked angrily over to the door and flung it open. The doorknob crashed violently into the wall and left a sizeable dent. Deerkethus stood and considered what I had said for an instant.
	
“Gan…I’m sorry.” He sighed, “What I said was meant to hurt you. It’s just…you’ll never know what it’s like to be a Dunmer. Almisvi be praised, I’ll never know it. But don’t be begin to presume to tell the Dunmer how to live their lives.”

“Selling to Imperials is a crime.” I said flatly, and I had the right of it.

“You’ll never get a conviction.” Deerkethus returned. “You’re too stubborn to see this.”
	
“Did you come here to talk or to criticize me?” I said and motioned for the door again.
	
“Both,” He laughed, “For I think tonight will be our last night. My master plans on being rid of you by tomorrow night. I’d thought I let you know. Leave Inquisitor, and never look back.”
	
I studied him for a while. He was my friend, and had earned that since saving my life. I understood why he said what he had said. It was all true. I was indeed a brute at times; despite my investigation skills, I also knew that I had no skill for charm or wit. That was partly the reason for my exile from Cyrodill. I was humbled by him.
	
“Look…” I said slowly, “I’m sorry. And you’re right. It’s that I…I can’t stand seeing you be involved in something I know you don’t support…”
	
“My support means nothing Gan…” He smiled, “I am a slave after all.”
	
“Yes you are.” I sighed. There was nothing more to say.
	
He stood for a bit and looked around the room. I wasn’t sure if he had anything else to say, but he hesitated for a moment before heading towards the door.
	
“I enjoyed working with you serjo.” He said and shook my hand, “Please forgive me.”
	
I said nothing as he left. I was too distracted. Inspiration had struck me. Like a light from above, I suddenly was overcome with a burst of ideas. Thoughts swirled in my head and I closed the door and headed towards a chair by the table. I needed to concentrate. Several lit candles were on the table and I stared into the flickering light as the pieces of the puzzle came into place.
	
I stared into the flames and took a swig of brandy from my flask. Steepling my fingers I sighed and stared intently at the flickering glow. It was time. Tomorrow, a man would be sentenced to die, and I would be sure that it was the right one.
	
I stared as the flames danced, and fell into a deep trance.
	
	

