---
title: "Tissa no-Ligra CH I-III"
reddit: 78u00f
author: Cuhlecain_Sifr
date: 2017-10-26T07:26:36Z
---

# Chapter I Akosh

*Akosh/Akat/Aka/Akatosh Known by the Cyrodiils as the dragon god of time, he is often  mistakenly referred to as a mirror to our great father Ruptga, who places the stars for those who are lost. We should properly refer to the Dragon God as the spirit of one-to-next.*
 ~ Kesha,  Princess and Scholarsword of the Anka-Ra

*It is pointless to worship one-to-next because all spirits have this trait and he is not special. Why else would would he agree to the snake’s trap if not to make himself the grandest chief? May Ruptga have praise to his name. If what the Ancient Nords and Cyrods of old believe is true, then the dragon is fragmented, mad, doomed to a cycle within a cycle.*
~Ramu Linas /Romulenus, Elinhir liason to Cyrodiil City


*One-to-next is known to the Altmer as the Eagle Auri-el, he is to them the soul of Satak’s soul. What is different about him is that he is said to a spirit once mer. Perhaps the last of spirits to jump with Magnus, or the first to jump with a new method. Maybe he is the one who made the igma dance?...I digress. He is the one who led the merrish forces against man in the early days of myth. He clashed with Lorkhan over old Atmora and lost. He sent his greatest champion  to Yokuda speaking lies with truth, we took not his lies but embraced his truths, making us subservient under his left hand for a time... I digress once more. Auri-el is a mirror of Akatosh who is in truth a very minor spirit given a big role.*
~Dremond of Taneth,  Historian at the Rihad University

# Chapter II Arkay

*Arkay. One of the most deceptive of all the spirits is he. My grandfather was a Celediil blade during the Oblivion Crisis and lived through it. He took it upon himself to study the commentaries (before you wonder why he did such a thing my brothers and sisters, knowledge of the enemy is the best weapon for even knowledge can best a blade) found by the Champion of Cyrodiil and even glanced at the fabled Mysterium Xarxes. It would forever change his views on the 8, but more importantly Arkay. 
In the days before the dawn, every dawn, before Nirn was yet fashioned, there was a Lyg. In the original, there was one who could end spirits and trap them in time-cycles. Maztiak, the Jailer King of Lyg. This was how death became known to our ancestor-spirits. He caused them to die with no incorporeal form to sustain as that was his domain. Some jumped while they could, others thought that they could kill Maztiak and reverse the process of death. However he himself did not die, and was dragged brutally, bloodily across the Lyg by the spirits who loved him no longer.
They threw him upon fading rocks as a definite story was to unfold, shouting “Enough of our constant shiftings and cycles! Let us be a thing expanding, definite!  The seven that convened at the provisional house invited Maztiak to a definite jailer of the day instead of the dawn so the Dragon is a natural eternity, the Snake forces a limit/end/ to this eternity and Maztiak makes sure the prisoners are returned during each cycle.*
~Kinan Chula, Crown War-Wizard to Sentinel throne.

# Chapter III Zenith

*Zenith, of confused with Zeht because both sound similar in name, but Zeht is the spirit of hard-work-with-great-benefit and Zenith is the spirit of this-for-that. He is a useful spirit though only for those who seek to gain in material things. Which is why he is so popular amongst the Bretons and Imperials.*
~ Kesha,  Princess and Scholarsword of the Anka-Ra

*A boring spirit that would rather solve problems with words over actions. A defensive warrior  is no warrior but rather a shielder. Each has a purpose however and Zenithar is the exchanger one thing for another. And we must not forget that it was by his grace that the second treaty of Stros M’kai was signed.*
~Ramu Linas /Romulenus, Elinhir liason to Cyrodiil City

*The Cyrodiils say he is the god that always wins yet is a win through trickery truly a win? If that is the case then he must always lose because he himself was tricked into into his own everlasting toil.*
~anonymous


