---
title: "The Gifts Of The Artists [Tamriel Rebuilt Apocrypha / Head-Canon]"
reddit: 79p2v9
author: Psychotrip
date: 2017-10-30T17:03:58Z
---

Year: 3E 419

Location: Ist township, Silta Kinhold, Dusk District, Summerset Isles. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

"**THIS IS AN ALINOR NEWS NETWORK...BREAKING NEWS REPORT**"

"**THIS IS AN ALINOR NEWS NETWORK...BREAKING NEWS REPORT**"

The sound of urgent, blaring music engulfed [the town of Ist](http://img1.tuniucdn.com/icons/place_photo/2011-12-101312950766800x600.jpg), followed by the cacophonous chatter of the kinfolk. [Telendil](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/cb/06/9f/cb069f8dda1804e9150102b5b7e372dd.jpg) awoke with a sly smirk on his face, before hopping out of bed with energy and vigor. His wife soon followed, less enthused but equally intrigued. 

"**THIS IS AN ALINOR NEWS NETWORK...BREAKING NEWS REPORT**"

Times like this, he thanked his lucky Stars for his silver tongue. He convinced the canonreeve to subscribe the town to A.N.N., despite his misgivings. Telendil would never claim he knew better than his canonreeve, but he was a serious sort, and didn't see the need for frivolities such as these. 

The children were already awake, exhausted but stumbling out the door. Much like their father, they were curious young mer.

By the time his clan had reached the Starwell, it seemed the entire town had already arrived. Sleepy children with big smiles on their faces, Mer still dressed in their copulation gowns, even the guards were transfixed on [the glowing, swirling fragments of an incoming transmission](https://ak6.picdn.net/shutterstock/videos/22844056/thumb/1.jpg). A few of Telendil's kinfolk had home-transmitters, and no need to leave the house, but this was a communal affair, and everyone knew it. 

"**THIS IS AN ALINOR NEWS NETWORK...BREAKING NEWS REPORT**"

Telendil lifted his youngest son, Volanaro, onto his shoulders, ensuring he could see the transmission the moment it arrived. A minute later, amidst bated breath, [a familiar face formed in the ether](https://www.this-is-cool.co.uk/wp-content/gallery/eye-candy/hollow.jpg). As always, she spoke in a voice equal parts sultry and commanding. 

"We have breaking news to share tonight. Now, this is coming to us live, and we're still gathering the details..." The muffled, distorted sounds of shuffling papers could be heard, as the figure looked off to the side, then down, then back to the anxious kinfolk.

"There's been a lot of speculation regarding the Parlour politics of the Welkynd Tong and the Color Council. Weeks of feuding, scandal, and even fist fights have broken out between the two factions in the upscale cantinas of Dusk. Mer and Man alike have been consumed by rumor and innuendo, but A.N.N. can finally confirm...

It was as if the air was sucked out of the courtyard.

"...Elininde and Viranirn *are indeed* sleeping together!"

The town of Ist was consumed by a din of cheers and jeers, dancing and stomping, and fierce debate between kinfolk. Telendil's wife embraced him, and Volanaro threw his hands up in joy. 

[The night was filled with laughter and sweat meats, as kinfolk settled their differences and mended friendships.](https://www.rockpapershotgun.com/images/15/feb/gw4.jpg) They danced until [the sun rose](http://www.wallpapers13.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Sunset-sea-shore-sea-waves-rocky-mountains-red-sky-dark-cloud-Beautiful-HD-Wallpaper.jpg), then bathed in the Starwell so they could dance some more. 

Telendil thanked his lucky Stars for the gifts of The Artists, and for his silver tongue. 


