---
title: "Excerpts from: Instructions for Hist blink-root-ship Gunners"
reddit: 7bd5x3
author: Sawbones194
date: 2017-11-07T13:30:34Z
---

Congratulations! If you hold this piece of wooden-cipher in your hands or claws, then you are already on the way to becoming a part of the gunners of the Hist blink-root-ship-Armada of our potentate
Serjo-Imperator Mat'Raha! Now read the following words in Khajiimeri standard script and prepare for your upcoming training in the void! (Copies of this cipher on Oldmeri and Olda'agra are available on request!)

Before starting your training, you receive, like all gunnery trainees, a centraltonal lobotomy and a gonadal removal, generously performed by a physically proofed and accepted Mark-Shaman. paid by your beloved Serjo-Imperator! (By a deposit of 50 thaler you receive on request an anesthesia, which, however, is not necessary for survival.)

[...]

If the Commander-in-Chief on the bark sends the order to fire, your gunner's-assistant, usually an apprentice gunner, will place the required bullet in the cannon and make it ready for fire. It will be fired only on orders of the commander.

After each shot, the fired cannonball must be tracked with the light-decompressor and its impact position must be documented in detail. Due to the lack of metal on Scnd and Mssr, it is imperative to avoid wasting metal, which is why uniforms and armors are made of wood and bone, and not, as in wealthy past, metal.

But after the fight, the duty of the gunner is far away from over!

After the fight is won, each gunner has to give his reports about the supposed impact location of the fired bullets to an information technician via encrypted dreamsleeve-cable-transmissions, short: dreamnet. The Information Technologist evaluates the information, calculates the chance of retrieving the metal, and forwards the results to the Chief Logistics Admiral, who, based on available resources, creates a priority list of the ammunition and forwards it to the commander-in-Chief on the bark.

Depending on the impact location, various measures are forwarded to the gunner. Landed a ball on one of the Godbodies in the void, the gunner will be sent, accompanied by his assistant, with a cambium-shuttle, sent as close to the impact on the Godbody as possible and recover the valuable ammunition.

The Technicians in the Hist blink-root-ship-Mark accompany the gunner on Dreamsleeve communication and provide him directional instructions and information about the weather on the Godbody.

Should a bullet hit an enemy ship, it must be reported to the Soldier's-Maat, and they will seek to locate the resources while patrolling the enemy wreck.

Any lost ammunition will be deducted from the Gunner's salary, which is calculated at around 250 thalers per Magnus full cycle.
