---
title: "On the Significance of Ears in Elven Culture Part II: Dark Elves"
reddit: 7cm76p
author: Eleithenya_of_Magna
date: 2017-11-13T10:12:48Z
---

*By Augustus, Imperial Historian 2E580*

Following my foray into Valenwood, I made my way to Morrowind as I waited for my entrance into the Summerset Isles to be approved. My initial thought upon coming to the country is that it was brutal and inhospitable. This view has changed with time, though the people still consider me an outsider. I'd like to thank the Tribunal Temple for agreeing to enable my research as well as the guards they have assigned to ensure my safety.

Dunmeri culture regarding their ears is, as with everything else in their culture, both subtle and blatant. Unlike the free abandon of their Bosmer cousins and the strict rigidity of their high elf brethren, the dark elves of Morrowind exhibit a cultural aspect many claim is the most refined and “sensible” of all the elven races.

Much like their Altmeri siblings, a Dunmeri’s ears are a source of cultural and political pride, though it is argued that the Altmeri protocols and rules exemplify a lack of imagination and creativity on their part.

Generally, the older a dark elf is, the bigger and longer their ears. Consequently, big and/or long ears are often considered highly attractive as indications of the potency of the individual’s bloodline. Amongst males, they are considered an indication of age, wisdom, and virility [due to a commonly held belief that the bigger the ears the more skilled and gifted sexually the individual]. Among females, it is considered an indication of a sharp wit, noble bearing, and wisdom [there is a rumour, I am told, that it is also an indication of heightened sexual appetites and passions]. The ears are semi-prehensile, certainly not as moveable as the wood elves but controllable to an extent. 

**Piercings**

It is common for Dunmer of all genders to pierce their ears as an initiation into adulthood or on account of spiritual or religious significance. At times, especially among members of nobility, this is cause for celebration with feasts that can go on for days. The piercing is typically done in the earlobe of the individual, as piercings in other places may be misconstrued to imply something other than what is meant. As well, many priests and wise women believe that the earlobe is the highly sensitive to spiritual energies and promotes good health.

Daughters of Mephala, for example, may pierce a series of hoops at the bottom of the tips of their ears that jingle delightfully to stand out and show they are available for business.

Warriors of House Redoran may pierce the upper parts of their ears, starting from the end of the earlobe, as a sign of virility, bravery, and courage. Particularly fanatic members may do so using the bones of their strongest enemies in the belief that this adds the strength of the opponent to their own.

The Ashlanders of Morrowind are said to revere the chainlinks of one of their prophets, Alandro Sul. By piercing their ears with these, it is said that can commune with their Saint.

A story runs that Saint Veloth engaged in an “Ash Binding”, a process that blesses the land to make it fit for settlement [The ashlander Wise Woman I spoke to did not go into specifics, but did graciously explain some parts]. He bound his body with chains to the earth, but in particular cut holes in his ears and cauterised with [magicka infused-]ash. Thereafter he bound his ears to the earth as well. After five weeks, he could understand the language of the Lords of Oblivion as though he were one of their own and was gifted with near-divine knowledge and wisdom.

**Tattoos and Designs**

The tattooing of one’s ears is a fashion that has never faded. For many, the act is done for fairly materialistic reasons i.e for beauty standards, or to match with the various facial and body tattoos.

Some Dunmer will tattoo specific portions of their ears dependent on their House, a practice currently waning in popularity in these new days of unity. This practice is said to have began in the days when the Velothi first came to Morrowind and were divided into many clans often split apart by vicious storms and the land. The Prince Mephala visited Saint Veloth in his dreams and inspired him to bestow a rune in daedric to each clan to provide each an identity, as well as an overall rune for the Velothii [many dunmer I have spoken to have been reticent, even downright hostile, on this idea that their people may have a Nymic similar to the Daedric beasts].

Proper House tattoos are inked using a special mixture imbued with Netch and the individual’s blood in a specific ritual [a name I have often hears is “blood writing”]. I have been unable to find what exactly makes this ink special, however, I have observed that most appear to be permanent and highly specific to each individual.

Take for example, House Sotha. Members of this now extinct House were known to mark the base of their upper ears. House Indoril the inner ear and House Dres a bar or more through the middle portion of the ears.

Some Dunmer would add the blood of their defeated to their blood writings, with their ear markings growing successively more complex as they added the power and wisdom of the fallen to their own [borderline necromancy].


House Telvanni wizards may, more mundanely, dye the tips and upper portion of their ears to produce a glow effect symbolic of stature as the brighter the glow the more potent the individual’s magicka pool.

**Ear Loss and Combat Associations**

There is, perhaps unsurprisingly, an appreciation of loss of one’s ear in Dunmeric society. Particularly the loss of the ear in battle or Honourable Combat as with the orcs of Orsinium. Amongst Nobles, having partially bitten ears is often a point of pride to the point that I am told some young nobles will enact the practice merely to boost their standing.

It is important to note that while many Dunmer will indeed pierce or tattoo their ears, it is equally common for those who do not hold any spiritual or militant role to go unadorned. As well, specialists are required to ensure the blood writings do not become unstable with each addition. 

There are many aspects to Dunmeri customs that change from locale to locale even though the basics may remain the same. One must remember that much like with human cultures there are no clear-cut all-wide rules, particularly with the dark elves, who thrive off and exemplify diversity and variety. Overall, from my experience in Morrowind I have come to the consensus that the Dunmer have a deep fascination with their ears. They exhibit this though in subtle forms routed in their culture that is nevertheless omnipresent.

