---
title: "On Hjaalmarch"
reddit: 7fxg08
author: in-the-pine-forest
date: 2017-11-27T18:54:05Z
---

4e177
My dear Brenuis,
My travels in Skyrim have brought me to Hjaalmarch, a swampy, isolated Holding in the north. I was at first anxious to leave this barren place, but there is a sense of charm that wears at you, and I found much to hold my interest. I have written many of my findings below, and if you would organize them for presentation to the Deans I would be most grateful. If memory serves there is a blind spot in the university archives when it comes to this Hold, and while justified, is something I seek to rectify.
Yours,
Caoran

**On Hjaalmarch**

**Rule and Industry-**
Hjaalmarch is one of Skyrim's smaller holds, and certainly one of its poorest. The former capitol of Snowhawk was destroyed during the Oblivion Crisis, leaving nothing but a ruin and completely destroying Clan Snow-hawk, the then ruling house of Hjaalmarch. Rule was transfered by the Thegnmoot to Clan Highmoon of Morthal, who claim direct descent from the mythical King Hjaal the Beaduleoma (Battle-light), for whom the hold is named. The city of Morthal is certainly ancient, showing signs of 1st Era architecture in places, but notably small and insular. The current Jarl, Igrod Highmoon, called "The Raven of Hjaalmarch", has been noted as focusing solely on issues facing Hjaalmarch, absent from the larger political machinations of the Kingdom of Skyrim. By all accounts she is efficient and effective, though something of a mystic. She is aided in governing the Hold by a court of Land-Thegns, who administer the other villages and towns, in return for the responsibility of maintenance, and the mustering of local militias. 

The Hold is primarily defined by the Drakmyr swamp, and is lacking in farmland and mineral wealth, compared to its neighbors. However, it is a vital salt production region, as well as an exporter of peat fuel and wool from its many goat farms. The Hold also supplies much of the fish eaten in the interior of Skyrim, with lumber and limited mining occurring in the eastern areas. Economically it may not have the benefits of the neighboring holds, but the impassibility of the terrain, resolute Hjaalic warriors, and the strength of Hjaalic identity have prevented its envelopment by other powers.

**Hjaalic Food and Drink-**
Hjaalmarch is known for multiple varities of the popular Nord spirit Vatnalif. The Hjaalic breeds, known as Hjaalsport, Middle March, Stennviden, and Stonehills, vary wildly- Hjaalsport, produced along the northern coast of the Drakemyr march, is thought strongest tasting, with deep notes of peat-smoke and brine; Middle March, produced in the area of Morthal, is typically aged in oak barrels and carries a distinct nutty taste; Stennviden, from the western woods, is known to be lighter bodied and fruitier, with a distinct wood-smoke aftertaste; and Stonehills, from the eastern mountainous region of the hold, packs a bracing, spicy punch.

 Hjaalmarch is also noted for various fermented concoctions, particularly garden wines produced from potatoes, and other distillations. One of my contacts remarked that Hjaals would distill anything, making their infamous "Scjota" out of innumerable herbs, fruits, grains, and, according to one less than reliable source, marsh salamanders.

Very little of Hjaalmarch is farmable land, with most crop production occurring in the Lainalten valley, along the banks of the Lesser Hjaal river. However, the resilient inhabitants of this Hold succeed in growing many edibles even in the swampiest regions- watercress, marsh rice and water chestnuts are staples, and fishing is a primary source of protein. Though cows are somewhat rare in Hjaalmarch, the area has a long tradition of goat-herding, and are renowned for the various resultant cheeses.

**Hjaalic Warbands-**
Though Nords, Hjaals have always seemed a culture apart. The relative isolation of their home has left them a distinct culture from their cousins east or west. A highly martial culture, even by Nordic standards, Hjaals seem to have traditionally placed much higher respect on unit tactics and coordinated efforts, compared to the archetype of the lone great Nord warrior, common to the east. This has led to their reputation as a formidable force, bolstered by the perennial tradition of mercenary-ship. Hjaalic warbands have throughout history sought employment beyond that of their homeland, earning great distinction in the armies of an early Tiber Septim, during his conquest of the Reach.

It can be of little surprise that various other Nordic subcultures trace themselves back to the Hjaals. Having crushed the Kingdom of the Reach early in his career, Tiber Septim is said to have given the governorship to one Atheldeor Brecanhilte and his men, from whom the current noble families of the Reach descend.

Similarly, King Cuhlecain of Falkreath left his steward to manage the then Colovian kingdom, when the young Septim's conquests delivered him the Ruby Throne. After his death and Septim's ascension, a succession crisis broke out in Falkreath. A petty lord of the Illynalta barony brought in Hjaalic mercenaries to support his claim, who, when the capitol was taken, refused to hand over the throne and took the kingdom for themselves. Headed by one Headeor of Stennviden, the independent kingdom was absorbed as a client state of Skyrim, and then fully as a Hold, within 10 years. Note- a surge of Nordic nationalism in opposition to Potema the Wolf-Queen saw the ruling house to change their name to Stuhn, as opposed to the traditional Hjaalic form, Stenn.

Within their own realm, Hjaalic warbands are known as the Anmedlafyrd, "Glory-Troop", as opposed to the Bordweallfyrd, the "Shield-Wall-Troop", often simply just "the Fyrd". Anmedlafyrds are entirely voluntary, mercenary bands fighting away from home for gold and glory, and could not be brought within the borders of the Hold without the special permission of the Jarl. This permission is a tradition right of Thegns, but has been granted to other notable warriors. 

The Bordweallfyrd is complusory, even to the modern day. All men and women of age and ability must muster when called for the defense of the realm, though smaller units, Aederfyrds, could be called to proportionate threats. While honor-bound to serve, a Hjaalic warrior could expect to be well rewarded by his Jarl. The whole Fyrd is mustered twice yearly, traditionally in the Gap of Lainalten, the fertile vally of the Lesser Hjaal river. According to legend, King Geatmod marshalled his forces here for a successful last stand against Jarl Braggi of Whiterun, proclaiming, "La, nae alutan", or Behold! This which we will never surrender.

**Hjaal and Morta-**
According to legend and folktale, the city of Morthal, current capitol of Hjaalmarch, is named for Morihaus Breath-of-Kyne, the famous bull-headed warrior of St. Alessia. I have, in my investigations, uncovered traces of an old saga which seem to contradict this. The original text seems to have been lost to time, and most of the commentaries and records I have found of it are fragmentary, but there is enough to piece together an outline and a context for the story.

The saga seems to be set in the time of the Dragon War, when ancient Nords rose up against the tyrannical dragon-priests. It follows a pair of warriors, Hjaal High-moon and Morta Kynjasta, the Blessed of Kyne. Many of their men falling before the dragon armies, they retreat to the swamp at the edge of the world, beyond which lands are wild and the pale-demons still hold sway. Beaten, broken, they attempt to rally, hidden by the marsh, but the dragon army finds them, and bears down upon their camp. Morta prays to her patroness, the war-wife of Shor, to save her husband, and their unborn child. As their foes charge, a great whirlwind envelops Morta, and Kyne strides out, with Morta's face. As she breaks the enemy's charge and wounds their leader, the mage Vain-Glorious-Face (the translations seem unclear here), driving them back to Bromjunaar. Morta-Kyne returns to the whirlwind, which dissipates, leaving on Morta, fallen on the ground. Hjaal grieves for his wife, and declares that he and his warriors will build here a hall in her memory. Nine months later, a storm brews over the hall, and a figure appears to Hjaal, cloaked in rain and with the voice of the wind, carrying an infant she proclaims is his son. 
