---
title: "The Khajiit Tower (in-world re-write)"
reddit: 7i33b5
author: scourgicus
date: 2017-12-07T01:59:33Z
---

He will not try to reveal the truth of the Towers, for to explain these Pinions of Creation is too much.  Instead, Ko’heleth will speak of the Khajiit Tower – the Tower of the Dream.

There are those among the tail-less who say our Aurbis is a Dream, the dhi of a tortured Dreamer.  He cannot say, or rather:  he thinks it does not matter.  For the narrative of the Dream is as it is, whoever or however the narrative is written.  What matters is how one understands it.

For tail-less ones, the Aurbis is a story of brothers, of conflict.  But for Khajiit, it is a story of Love – Ahnurr and Fadomai and their tempestuous romance…become a horror.  The Children of Fadomai hid her in the Great Darkness and she was protected by Jone and Jode, the Guardians.  Later, when Lorkhaj made a Place for Nirni and her Many, the Guardians stood watch, to keep away the anger of Ahnurr.  Our Father stands at the gate and rages for his love’s betrayal, but the Guardians hold him at bay.

Understand now the meaning of the Ehlnofex NRN – “Arena”.

An Arena is not only a place of conflict and blood, but also a place of Witness.  Actors erect a stage and there tell stories of heroes or fools, and we watch.  So Nirni is the stage for our Father to Witness, and Khajiit are the actors.

Ahnissi reminds us that we are the Secret Defenders of Nirni, and what is this but to walk the Way of the Moons – the Guardians, Jone and Jode?  It is our Story that speaks to Ahnurr, whispering to him that which he needs, but cannot find in himself.  This singular Truth: “Love is the meaning of every Aurbis.”

Azurah bound Khajiit to the Moons, the Lunar Lattice, that we might speak this Truth to our Father in many ways, many languages.  We speak in the eternal Twilight between all dichotomies:  life and death, love and hate, Time and Place.  We speak also to Men and Mer who know only hatred for one another, and themselves.

And if the Guardians fail and Ahnurr shakes the world, Khajiit will climb Khenarthi’s Breath to stand upon the Corpse-Divnities for all to see, and speak the Truth of Riddle’thar: “The Way is the Lattice.  The Lattice is the Way.”

And the Way…oh my dear friends!  The Way is Love.

 #BeyondSkyrimElsweyr

 #KhajiitTowerRewrite

 #khajiitlove
