---
title: "Collected Verses of Avarian the Poetaster, Vol. 1"
reddit: 7j702r
author: QuiMoritur
date: 2017-12-12T01:11:07Z
---

**Collected Verses of Avarian the Poetaster, Vol. 1**  
*Written and Composed by Avarian the Poetaster*  
*Compiled and Edited by Erand the Dogged*  

            
***Unemployed Priest***  
*One of many limericks sung by Avarian on the front steps of the Arcane University during the Oblivion Crisis*
                
Somewhere out there, in Oblivion's vast void  
A great barrier of sorts was destroyed.  
But though all the great mages  
Sought spells, scrolls, and pages,  
It fell to a priest, unemployed.

***Dead Words on Undead Lips***  
*Allegedly a warning given to Avarian by the rotting corpse of a dragon during his trek through Oblivion*

*Yah ni lok staad, kiir  
Dahik hi aal mah ahrk dir.  
Uv volz, hi fen ni.*

Seek not high place[s], child  
Because you may fall and die.  
Or worse, you will not.

***Skin of Skingrad***  
*The result of the Count of Skingrad circa 3E 425 commissioning Avarian for a few verses to be sung at a Tales and Tallows festival*

The skin of Count Skingrad is a peculiar thing  
It's pale and thin yet supple as spring.  
But if you look a little closer  
And drink it in, as it were  
You'll find that the Count has a ring.

***Dragon Ears***  
*A limerick sung to a crazed group of dancing spectral mages wandering the streets of Coldharbour's Imperial City*

Your red robes and cowls cannot hide your scowls  
For your dragon's got two ears like trowels.  
Go cavort on a tower  
And wish hard for power  
To take away that which befouls.

---

I think I rather like writing poetry for Elder Scrolls lore, even if I'm not the best at it. [The White and Gold of a Harbour Cold](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/7itnfg/the_white_and_gold_of_a_harbour_cold/) was pretty fun, and I definitely enjoyed looking through my knowledge of TES lore for various people or groups to mock through Avarian.  
But holy *shit.* I'm never doing anything in Dovahzul ever again. That took me almost half an hour of trawling through a translator to get it to work in both English and Dovahzul, and it still kinda doesn't work in English ("seek not high place***s***").

I'd love some feedback on this stuff. Since the next subreddit theme of the week is the First Era, I'll probably expand upon the limerick making fun of the Selectives for that, unless anyone has a better idea.

~~I can't stop myself from reading "poetaster" as "poe-taster" and I'm imagining some Bosmer frantically trying to eat [cartoon ghosts from a Nintendo franchise](http://zelda.wikia.com/wiki/Poe)~~
