---
title: "Altmeri Tales and Fables: The Tower that reached the Heavens."
reddit: 7l04z5
author: Eleithenya_of_Magna
date: 2017-12-20T08:33:24Z
---

*By Rsthlensil of Sunhold, first published in the book "Altmeri Tales and Fables: Volume I" under the sponsorship of the Crystal Tower, 1E 2919.* 

And in those days the People came together on the shores of Summerset, speaking amongst themselves in amiable tones. They all possessed “The Channelling” in those days. They spoke to each other, saying, “Let us build a tower, in honour of the Spirit of our Peoples.”

Thus they did so, coming together and labouring for 80 days, partaking in no festivities till the tower was complete. Made of stone both Mundane and Aetherial, it was glorious and unmatched in all the Land. Then did the People celebrate, for they had done a monumental thing. 

The Lords of Misrule, seeing the Spirit of the Aldmer shine throughout the void in honour of Anu, murmered amongst themselves in discontent. “The People grow Proud!” they shouted, “Soon they will reach the Heavens, Us, and will be as Gods!” Others spoke,“They must not be allowed to become as such. See! The forces of Ambericity and the Lord of the Crystal Isles grow beyond their sphere”. So they suggested amongst themselves, “Quick! We will send one of our own to them and sow the seeds of discontent and chaos amongst them.” 

The Princes of Misrule smiled secret smiles and nodded their ephemeral heads. Yes, this was a good plan.

Thus did the shadow of Lorkhan move to descend to Nirn [or maybe it had always lain there, waiting], and move among the People. He looked upon the Isles and evisioned the peace and unity the Crystal Prince had brought to them and knew he would be unable to defeat the patron of their works so overtly. Thus he worked his mischief in secret. At first he spoke of fabled lands beyond their home, lands where their wisdom and beauty could shine ever more. Then he spoke of strange powers and lost ancestries, of new discoveries to be made. Finally, he spoke of the lies of the Gods, and the greatness of their collective greed. Thus did he over time influence the people [in ever increasing intimate caresses] with his melody, his sweet song.

Through this, the shadow [such flimsy thing] gained Power, and became as the Princes of Misrule.

The first to leave were the Deep Ones, those vast in knowledge and Logic, who witnessed the corruptions of their homeland. They too were affected by the words of the shadow [for there is always a grain of Truth in a tale], and thus they rejected the worship of the Ancestors. But seeing too through the spirit’s lies they rejected those not their Ancestors. And so the Deep Ones were spared from the Great Degeneration, but were forever apathetic to the plight of their fellows, and the wonder of the Arena.

The second to leave were the Talented Ones, those who made their homes in the trees of the Wild Woods. They sought to force the world to their Will, employing strange and unnatural magicks. For their Pride, the Gods cursed the remainder of their Pure Form and they were left unanchored for a thousand years, till they grew enough in Memory to remember a semblance of whom they had once been. Thus are the Forest Ones ashamed to speak of their histories and past, for it reminds them of when the Gods cursed them.

The third to leave were the Cultured Ones, they who settled in the lands of Cyrod and Old Ehlnofey. The less is said of them, the better. For they embraced the teachings of Misrule and of the World, and were blessed by the Princes for it. But the favour of the Lords is fickle and soon they would pay the price for it, tormented by their own creations till their demise and the demise of their Culture.

The fourth and final to leave were the Changed Ones, those of Dagon’s Domain. Theirs was a pitiable fate for though they saw and resisted the shadow of Lorkhan, they were tricked by it. Knowing He could not actively sing His song amongst the People [who were now guarded against it], He instead targeted one amongst them, the greatest of Auriel’s champions. 

Suffice to say, He took possession of the Champion and spoke such obscenities the Gods themselves wept. Still, His song shone through, brighter than ever. Some saw the shadow, wreathed in the Golden Light of Dawn, and chose to worship it. So weak were their wills that they turned to the Great Deciever, gave it a Name, and followed it to a new land. A land of Turmoil and struggle. Thus were they changed to the Dark Ones. 

Others, those of thee Champion’s Faithful, watched in horror as their greatest was Humiliated by his greed. Watched as he fled to the great Beyond, and followed, to become changed as he was to something disgusting. Their trials in the great Beyond thus made the Pariah Folk strong in Endurance, but forever unwanted. Destined to be the Outsiders of Civilisation.

The Cultured Ones, those of the Golden Isles, were not untouched by the shadow. For many years His influence roamed freely among them, mitigated only when they sought assistance from the Crystal-Law. But all they met was Silence. Despairing, the People gathered again to build a substitute, that which was Crystal-Like-Law. They named the Pact Alinor, and for as long as they fell not to the influences of Misrule, they would be safe. They despaired however, for the influences were everywhere. Soothingly, Alinor assured that soon an Incarnation of the Crystal Prince would come, and help save them from the forces of Quinoa. The corruption within them would be eliminated, as would their cities, to be free to start anew. Then, they would rebuild Tower Law better than before and would be reunited once more as was in Old Aldmeris.
