---
title: "Complete Creation, or the New Monomyth."
reddit: 7qvmbg
author: Proasek
date: 2018-01-16T21:14:13Z
---

#*Forword*

There are many races in Tamriel, all with their own myths for how the world began. Naturally, scholars before me have tried to compile complete myths based on these, but they naturally favor either Imperial or Aldmeri beliefs. I have attempted to avoid such a pitfall, and best represent what must be the truest form of the dawn of our world.

~~~

#*Complete Creation*

It is difficult to say what lay at the true beginning of the universe. Our kalpa may be the first, or the last, or just one of many. What is known, is that in our beginning there were two entities, or energies, that are commonly called Anu and Padomay. It is believed that conflict between these two birthed the first god, Akatosh, and time began. Being the first-born of the universe, Akatosh is both the most powerful and prominent of the gods. Alongside Akatosh, were created Anuiel and Sithis, gods of light and dark respectively. With Akatosh as the catalyst, Anu and Padomay begat Kynareth, god of winds, of movement, Magnus, god of magic, Mara, god of love and Stendarr, god of mercy, and several others. Within their spheres, these gods were powerful.
After these gods came Hermaeus Mora, god of knowledge, Hircine, god of hunger, Mehrunes Dagon, god of destruction, or specifically of change, Mephala, god of secrecy, Sanguine, god of pleasure, Jyggalag, god of strict order, and many others. These gods were powerful within their own spheres, as well as within themselves, able to fashion worlds as extensions of themselves. It is thought at this time that Anu was either expended, or departed from Padomay.

Padomay’s energy was divided then into Azura, god of dawn and dusk, Lorkhan, god of betrayal, and Namira, god of shadow by Kynareth. At this time, there was just magic, pure energy in which the gods resided, with little form or structure. This was changed by Lorkhan, who convinced a great number of the gods to construct something concrete, the mortal plane. Other gods laughed at this concept, instead positioning themselves around the site of Lorkhan’s ideal, forming the endless abyss of Oblivion. 

Magnus took to designing the mortal plane, with the help of many gods, who became elements of the world, the earthbones. These gods became trapped in the world, and seeing this, Magnus fled throughout Oblivion back into the endless magic. The hole he tore became the sun. With guidance from the god Ruptga, almost all remaining gods fled through the stars, becoming known as the children of Magnus. Those gods that remained, and had not yet given up their divinity to become earthbones, instead created towers to lock in place the mortal plane. These towers had stones to collect the energy that leaked from Aetherius into Oblivion, that they used to hold the structure of the earthbones together. The first of these towers was the Adamantine tower, it's stone was the Zero stone, and upon its site, the gods decided whether they would leave or stay in this mortal realm. The next tower is Snow-throat, the stone of which is represented by a cave. The tower is as a mountain, tallest and greatest of the towers.

The order is uncertain, but at this time both the majority of the towers came into being, one stone was a sword, and the other an acorn. It was likely here that Lorkhan was brandished a betrayer for what had happened to his fellow gods, and atop the Adamantine tower he was confronted. After much consideration, the decision was made to remove his heart, his divine spark, and destroy it. It was the duty of the warrior-god Trinimac to remove it, and so he did, leaving Lorkhan’s body to be split into moons for the mortal plane. 

However, when it came time to destroy the heart, Akatosh found it to be impossible, as to do so would be to destroy heart of the world, and waste the lives of those who had fallen. Instead then, Akatosh attached it to an arrow, and fired it east into the sea. As the arrow flew high over what would become known as Tamriel, a drop of blood fell from it, forming the gem that would become the stone of the White Tower, though if it was Lorkhan’s own or Akatosh’s, it cannot be said for sure. When Lorkhan’s divine spark hit the ocean, it created a massive crater, raising the land around it’s lip to form Morrowind and Solstheim, and from its centre rose the great Red Mountain, the final of the god’s towers. Satisfied that their work was done, the gods that preserved their divinity, numbering little more than eight now, rose above the mortal plane, Nirn, and became planets, and planets about planets, to watch over and bless the actions of those who would descend from those gods who had wholly abandoned their divinity. Over man and mer, beast and beastfolk, life and mortality. Akatosh then once again stood alone, surrounded by Oblivion, and accompanied by none. In a final act of defiance against Lorkhan, Akatosh created from his own power, as he himself had been created from Anu and Padomay, Alduin, and the race of immortal dragons on the continent of Akavir, and on the continent of Lyg, the leftover imprint of Tamriel, Akatosh created the towers of Chim-el Gharjyg, with his own soul as their stone, and locked the mortal plane in eternal sleep.

It was the end of dawn, until with the aid of the Children of Magnus, the god Mehrunes Dagon, who had initially refused to involve himself in the machinations of Lorkhan, forged his infamous razor on the continent of Lyg, and struck down those towers, freeing the mortal plane from timelessness. He did this for one reason, he is a god of change, and so an unmoving mortal plane was abhorrent to him, and a god of destruction. The motivations of the multitude lesser gods who assisted is less clear, perhaps it was a wish for their fellows who had become mortal to be free, or a desire to see their leader’s design flourish in spite of them. This would be the first of several assaults upon Nirn by Mehrunes Dagon, and surely his greatest achievement.

