---
title: "Shezzar is not Shezarr!"
reddit: 7r5m7b
author: Misticsan
date: 2018-01-18T00:12:11Z
---

*From 'In Pursuit of Knowledge and Sugar', by Mazil-jo, self-taught scholar extraordinaire.*

---

Once, Khajiit were regarded as the wisest, cleverest and most handsome scholars in the world. Everyone, from the Psijics in Artaeum to the Dwemer of Morrowind, said so. However, for some mysterious reason, this changed, and now the children of Azurah are considered suspicious and prone to petty crimes. What a sadness.

This one has suffered many setbacks because of this cultural misunderstanding. Like that time when he visited one of the Imperial universities in Cyrodiil. 

It followed what this one calls the ‘Four Steps Of Acceptance’. First of all, things start with the usual *“Guards, kick this vagabond out of here!”*, which is followed by a distrusting *“This letter of recommendation is obviously a forgery”*, then goes on with an outraged *“Are you trying to bribe me?!”*, and, finally, it ends with an enlightened *“Our university thanks you for your generous donation, most esteemed guest”*.

In fact, the university was so sorry for their initial rudeness that this one got a room to stay in, free of charge, a perfect place to read the books he had borrowed from the library with permission (and those he had borrowed without permission too).

Sadly, reading was difficult, because a man was shouting and babbling and making noises in the other room. When the pupil of my master complained, they said:

“Sorry for the inconvenience. That man is Savio Fortunatus, one of our professors. He went crazy after reading some strange books and now we’re keeping him in that room until the healers take him away”.

This one’s curiosity was picked and asked for permission to talk with that Professor Fortunatus.

He was an old man, with desperate eyes and a quivering tongue. As soon as I entered the room, he asked me:

“You, Khajiit! Are you with Shezzar?”

This one asked him if he was talking about Lorkhaj, who the Cyrodiils call ‘Shezarr’, in which case he could assure him that his people would rather spit upon his image than pray to him. But the professor shook his head.

“No, no, I’m not talking about the Missing God. He’s but a puppet of greater powers. I’m talking about Shezzar. You won’t find anything about him in the officially sanctioned sources, mind you. But I read the obscure books, crossed the halls of Apocrypha, and his appearances are legion. Especially those of his agents and avatars, the cursed Shezzarines. There’s no definite proof, you know, but the list of suspects is long: Pelinal, Ysmir, Wulfharth, Tiber Septim, Zurin Arctus, the Eternal Champion, the Nerevarine, the Hero of Kvatch… Some of them have traditionally been regarded as incarnations of Shezarr too, but according to the forbidden accounts, there are definitely more Shezzarines than Shezarrines”.

The pupil of my master remained unconvinced and suggested that perhaps he had read poorly edited sources that misspelled Shezarr’s name, not unlike how hairless scholars write Lorkhaj’s name as ‘Lorkhan’.

“Fool! How many times do I have to repeat myself? Shezzar is not Shezarr!”, Fortunatus shouted. “You don’t understand! We’re toys in the eyes of Shezzar. The world was created to be his playground! He appears as a thousand million Shezzarines of every race and gender, and loves, and hates, and kills, and steals, and puts buckets over people’s heads, and the gods can’t do anything about it. Even the Principalities of Oblivion rush to lavish gifts on them, for they know the truth of this world. It’s all a huge conspiracy”.

After hearing such an egregious theory, this one sighed and concluded that Sheggorath had done a number on him, and so he said. Instead of getting sad or angry, the professor laughed.

“Of course he did! Sheogorath is a Shezzarine too! He went mad to protect us from himself!”

That was the end of our little chat. This one went back to his room and his books, and pitied the mad professor. Yet the pupil of my master could not help but be wary about the whole story.

Sometimes, the worst kind of madness is the one that can be true.
