---
title: "The Tale of Kayra Gra-Mauloch, Wife of Mauloch"
reddit: 7t3nk8
author: YargukgroMulakh
date: 2018-01-26T10:15:12Z
---

**The Tale of Kayra Gra-Mauloch.**

*By Ghobal Gra-Lashnul*

*What follows is the telling of an Orcish Stronghold myth, about the sword-maiden Kayra Gra-Mauloch, inpregnanted by Mauloch himself and mother to the Orcish Crusader Emmeg Gro-Kayra.* 

In the days of the founding of the First Orsinium, there lived, in the Mountains of High Rock, an Orcish maiden of the Grilikamaug Tribe, Kayra Gra-Grolikamaug.

On her tenth name-day, she left her stronghold in the pursuit of bringing glory and honour to both her tribe and the Orcish people of High Rock. Before she left, the shaman of the tribe prophesised awesome but dark things:

"Honour you shall bring, but your children shall bring it and glory."

"You shall bear the fruits of your honour to Mauloch, by Mauloch."

"The blade that glows brightest in the forge glows for half the time."

 So she set out to bring honour to the Orcs. In seven years, she slew seven-hundred Redguard raiders and Breton brigands that attempted to assault the various Orcish tribes.

After defending a particularly pious tribe from overwhelming odds, they summoned Malacath in her honour. The Orc-Father indeed manifested himself before the fiery young woman. She spoke thus the words:

"Your search for honour has been brought. Your Children shall bring both it, and glory. You shall be my Nirn-wife."

And so they were married in the midlight moonlight. One thousand goblin-ken and One-thousand Orcs attended the ceremony, drinking and sparring until the sun arose in the distance. The consummation of the union, it is said, could be heard across the border, from the highest peaks of the Throat of the World in Skyrim.

Malak's own seed blossomed in Kayra's loins, imbuing her with his rage. It is said she shattered half the mountain when she pursuit a day in the local tribal mine. It is also said, that as her child grew inside her, her strength grew to that almost equal with the Orc-father himself. Nine months pasted, and the child was to be born. Malak said these words: 

"You will bear the fruits of your honour to all the Orcish people, the *Golzarga Ornim*, The Cherished Orcs!"

And so she went into the fiery battle of labour, which she battled on for two full days. Assault after assault of bleeding pain was endured until her mortal body was overcome with her lifetime of ordeals.

The anger of death-cry filled the sky, and when her body had departed, Malak took her soul to Ashpit and turned her into the his forge at the centre of his stronghold.

The shaman of the local tribe took her baby boy into his arms and gave him to Malacath, who spoke these words:

"The blade that glows brightest in the forge glows for half the time. The fire of the battle forges the best of kin."

"This boy shall bring honour and glory to my children."

He then returned the boy to shaman of the Grilikamaug Tribe, who named him Emmeg Gro-Kayra, after the Warrior of his mother.

