---
title: "Poetry Translations: Yngol Barrow"
reddit: 7upc47
author: JondoTheSkull
date: 2018-02-02T06:03:12Z
---

I regret to inform you, my dear students, that we have recieved at last confirmation of what we too long have feared. Our dear Professor Addvald, well-known for his work in developing a working understanding of Proto-Nordic and Atmoran language, has passed away as a result of mishaps during his travels to the north of Skyrim. His body has been recovered, and details regarding funeral and memorial services will be announced in the coming days. 

For the moment, let me share with you a poem-- discovered and translated by Addvald in what is suspected to be the last hours of his life. A true scholar, Addvald continued to open our minds to-- and, indeed, beyond-- the very end.

This poem was discovered in a barrow long-attributed to Yngol, son of the legendary Nord known as Ysgramor.

The original language reads:
 
&gt;Jaaskr dovez dyv ge Otmyrea	

&gt;Sviedd verhklyk ien Rievark vyth

&gt;Skjorka ge Skovka skyth		

&gt;Dyv skyv dovesk bedd			

&gt;Dzenn dyv svien				

&gt;Dyv skyv dovesk bedd					

&gt;Mierok ge mieg miegnyske

&gt;Dyv skyv dovesk bedd				

&gt;Skjaskr ge Sievyskyv				

&gt;Dyv skyv dovesk bedd		

&gt;Berskaarth! Kaaledd svienskyl orhyzaz Yngol	

&gt;Zhykaalorhyz vinlyz vinla svienskovie Otmyrea					

&gt;ien jaedda ny sviedda zvie				

&gt;nyeeg miega nyeeg sviena zvie

&gt;vikke tsata jega

&gt;Doveskyl naajerskyl doveskyl bedd

And Addvald's translations:
 
&gt;All was so in Atmora

&gt;land of truth and our home

&gt;Man in his throne,

&gt;so should he be

&gt;Whale in the sea,

&gt;so should he be

&gt;Eagle in Sun's Sky,

&gt;so should he be

&gt;Snake in the weed

&gt;so should he be

&gt;Sorrow! For the Sea-Ghosts took Yngol

&gt;Prize Brother of Sail from Atmora's Fleet

&gt;And none on land

&gt;nor sky, nor sea

&gt;would ever again

&gt;be as should be

My dear students, I think this a distinctly fitting poem for this moment of grief in our institution. Addvald was a beloved member of the staff, and I only hope that you reflect on the great opportunities his research and teaching provided to us all. I truly believe that Addvald would be thrilled to see his work outliving him-- I only wish it could have been a closer race.

More translations will be forthcoming as we continue to process through the substantial body of unpublished work left behind in the wake of Addvald's passing. Let us spend this time, instead, reflecting on the memory of our dear professor, and the dangers of the uneducated world.

 Marius, Dean of Nordic Studies, the Cyro-Nord University, Bruma



