---
title: "Redguard Tales I: The Many Faces of Tava"
reddit: 82dt4i
author: Eleithenya_of_Magna
date: 2018-03-06T09:27:47Z
---

*Imperial Historical Archivist, 2E 200*

Imperials often assign a single interpretation to a deity, a practice rooted in their ancestral past and validated by centuries of worship. The problem however comes when the same practice is assigned to foreign deities, such as those of the Ra Gada of Hammerfell.

It is often forgotten that the Yokudans did not all migrate in one large wave to what would be known as Hammerfell. They came in bouts and groups, rarely from one distinct city or village in Yokuda.

As such, they brought with them differing manner of beliefs and customs from their native lands. Some of these at times at times being contradictory to each other, others complementary. Some so strange they became extinct in modern times, such as the practice of Night Dancing, a practice that so horrified people that villages suspected of housing members of this cult were avoided at all costs. Particularly at night.

But I digress. In this book, I have recorded some of the many ‘Aspects’ of the deity known as Tava. Known as the Goddess of the Air, she is often synonymous with Kynareth in modern societies and is often depicted with Avian iconography. Interesting to note, some of these aspects are said to have begun as mortals who then ‘ascended’. Keep in mind that this list is by no means exhaustive.

**Oya**

‘She Who Is Almighty’, ‘She Who Floods’, or ‘River-Born Witch’. Oya is one of the most well-known and most popular avatars of Tava. She is said to appear in the form of a white-haired redguard with lightning in her eyes, riding a chariot composed entirely of thunderclouds and wind and dressed in the manner of Old Yokuda. As the avatar of destruction, specifically destructive thunderstorms, her arrival is said to be the wrath of the Gods descended to force the people to start anew.

**Dalia**

‘The Little Sister’ or ‘The Sweet Sister’, this avatar of Tava is known to be favourable to farmers. She brings the sweet spring rains and causes rainbows to appear in times despair to comfort the people. Her Artefact is known as the ‘Wings of Irie’ and sweets are typically offered to her during praise. She is particularly fond of children and inspires creativity.

**Benje**

‘The Keeper of Heavenly Balance’ or ‘The Diplomat’s God’. He always speaks the truth and is known to have been neutral in the fight against the lefthanded elves, giving aid to both sides. Began as a mortal beggar.

**Dhajjira**

‘The Queen of Heaven’, ‘The Maker of Greatness’, or ‘The Great Weaver’. Once a vain but beautiful Queen, she claimed she could do the work of the gods better than them. Tava brought the God’s reply, a challenge to see who could guide souls to the Far Shores better. She won and the Gods, in an interesting twist acknowledged her skill and rose her to become the new ‘Queen of Heaven’. She had not wanted this and grew bitter, which is why the heavenly mysteries are revealed to only a few. In other stories she is said to have worked with Sep to raise the heavens even more to punish the Gods.

**Dagga**

God of violent seas, stormy weather at sea, and earthquakes. He is often blamed for turning otherwise clear skies and seas to violent ones. He appears in the form of a red-skinned elf with the lower body of a watersprout. Is associated with sirens and singing is said to soothe him. Mermaids and nereids are believed to be his offspring.

**Dhbuli**

‘The Bountiful’ or ‘The Sea’s Daughter’. She is alternatively a daughter of Tava or an aspect of Tava herself. Was widely worshipped around lakes and rivers as it was believed she brought about a bountiful catch. Appears as a mermaid with wings or an undine.

**Ndeku**

‘The Messenger’ or ‘The Errand’s Favour’, Ndeku is said to bring the prayers of the faithful to the ears of the Gods. He is also associated with magic and trickery.

**Njaba**

‘The Huntress’ or ‘The Thrill of Battle’. Little is known about this avatar aside from the fact that she was once mortal and is also associated with nature. Is said to have built a city composed entirely of plant-life in the past.


**Mantling Tava**

A common practice in villages in the past involved a celebration in which an exceptional person ‘mantled’ Tava during a ritual re-enactment and stood-in for the goddess. This would take place every 9 years. It was held that one was blessed by the deity during this period and became capable of powerful magicks.
