---
title: The Time God’s Whiskers, and Other Khajiiti Myths Explored
reddit: 11zpv9
author: Voryn
date: 2012-10-24T05:07:21Z
---

Ever since my return from seclusion, I have found myself overwhelmed by news of
things I’d all but shut my eyes and ears to. So entrapped in my own designs and
philosophies that the world’s vastness had escaped me, much more so its far
larger culture. As I rediscovered the world and my own place in it, I found
myself more often than not on the trail of a new library or some other
repository of knowledge. While my own knowledge of the higher workings of our
world is not insubstantial, many are the things I had not given thought during
my time in seclusion. And so, many are the topics that have surprised me,
especially since at the time, I thought that very few had the knowledge and
wisdom required to see through the webs of misunderstanding and lies wrapped
around the world. I would like to apologise, for I was wrong. Topics ranging
from the tower, the wheel, aetherius and various others from all tiers of
existence. So, in continuation with Nirn’s growing enlightenment, I shall humbly
submit my thoughts surrounding the yet mysterious aspect of the time god,
Alkosh, as well as the khajiit’s place in the world (along with that of the
Bosmer). Some information regarding towers and stones shall be briefly
presented, however it is all still speculation.

Who is Alkosh? Where is his place amongst the other pantheons? Much is obscured,
much is unknown. I believe, however, that the answers are not as simple (I use
that term loosely, mind you) as the other pantheons would put it. Following the
Khajiiti creation myth, Alkosh is a product of the union of both Anu and Padomay
(known to the Khajiit as Ahnurr and Fadomay), as is every other god (or at least
those mentionned in the myth). Now where does that lead us? Both Anuic and
Padomaic?
Lets look at Elsweyr:

We have a province that is half desert, half jungle. The nomads and the
sedentaries, the poor and the rich. They have fought for time beyond our
knowing. One accuses the other of decadence, then he in turn accuses the first
of being savage. Does this sort of relationship not strike a familiarity?

Following the fact that the Khajiiti creation myth continues on the elven road
of portraying Lorkhan as a trickster (even if his birth and location of would
see him somewhat sympathetically), I would describe Alkosh as his first
incarnation, both Anuic and Padomaic before his alteration by the Marukhati
Selectives’ ploy. For indeed Alkosh was affected by their dance, as the Khajiit
say themselves. Undeniably one will look at the story of their creation myth and
think that their gods are more Padomaic in nature. Perhaps it was true once,
then not, but today it seems that it is true. For some. The Marukhati sought to
remove Anuic aspects, thus elven, of Akatosh, and so they did. To the Khajiit,
Alkosh, Akatosh, at the time undivided, became sundered of its elven aspects.
Then a new deity appears: The Riddle’thar.

–It should be noted that the Khajiit view the Padomaic more in the fashion that
others see the Anuic, therefore certain things must be regarded cautiously–


The Riddle’thar seems to have taken over a great part of the worship once
attributed to Alkosh. He was introduced by one of the Manes: Rid-Thar-ri’Datta.
He seems to act as Anuic gods generally do. To quote “some of his avatars like
to appear as humble messengers of the gods”. Were I to deduce certain facts from
general knowledge, I would surmise that the Riddle’thar is mainly worshipped in
the south, the jungles, while Alkosh, as it is said “he still enjoys immense
popularity in Elsweyr’s wasteland regions” is mostly venerated in the north, the
desert. I assume this since the Riddle’thar seems now more popular than Alkosh,
and would assume most of the population of Elsweyr lies in the south seeing as
it is the richer part and more travelled path (for, indeed, the south possesses
most, if not all, of the port cities). The Riddle’thar may very well be the
sundered aspect of Alkosh under a new name.

Now, the Khajiit, who are they, where do they come? The origins of the Khajiit
are shrouded in mystery, they exist since beyond written time. I sha’n’t tackle
the means by which they came to be, how long have they truly been on Nirn, for
it has far less information of note than their creation myth. What we do know:
they were of the same kin as the wood elves, who are no true mer. Both have been
changed from their original unknown forms. I do not doubt Azura was responsible
for their present form, her abilities to so drastically influence a people is
evident enough on my own ashen skin. Her capacity to tie the Khajiit’s
physiology to the moons however, leads me to believe she may be tied in some way
to Lorkhan. The same thought I have had for Y’ffre, who turned the Bosmer into
their current forms, elves, interesting choice. It is worth noting that the
“human” aspects of Khajiit are in fact elven, as their children can almost be
mistaken for young elves if not for their tails. Were I to speculate wildly, I
would say the Khajiit may have at one time been related to elves, but have since
been tied by Azura to Lorkhanic elements. (side-thought: It is said the Khajiit
are the only people capable of putting the moons back into proper aligment, and
that this aligment protects Nirn from the wrath of Ahnurr, what might that be…)

Now on to the elements pertaining to the Tower and their Stone. First and
foremost, while I do believe certain Towers were created by the elves, most,
like Adamantine, Snow-Throat, Red Mountain, and so on are older than mer. Now,
it has been speculated that the Stone of the Khajiiti is the Mane, their
spiritual leader. As all Stones have to do with Lorkhan, and certain sources
point to the Mane being the third moon, I am strongly inclined to believe this
to be true. Now what about the Tower? The Khajiit of course, their very kin, but
only when united. Why else would the Thalmor seek to deceive them for their
allegiance and then split them once again into Anequina and Pelletine? If they
had simply tried exterminating the Khajiit, they might have all banded together
in defence of their homeland, and then all hope of terminating their Tower would
be gone, for exterminating a race as clever in desperation as the Khajiit in its
entirety is not likely.

On the Thalmor it is to be said, they are liars in purpose and in action. They
proclaim themselves “saviors of mer” when they have only allied with two races
that were never “true” mer, and utterly ignored their brethren, Orsimer and
Dunmer. If there is a reason behind this I shall pursue it until it unveils its
secrets before me. Until then I shall endeavor to go through Bosmeri lore
surrounding Y’ffre. So far I am lead to believe he may be an aspect of Lorkhan,
as a prophet mentions his return it seems to match the idea that Lorkhan is
secretly working to move the gears beneath the world to engineer some sort of
event, be it his return or otherwise. If such a thing reveals true, then my
belief that the forests of Valenwood are the stone of Falinesti may reveal
plausible. The great migrating tree did only root after the oblivion crisis,
when trees once protected by the wood elves were inevitably damaged by the
ongoing Daedra onslaught.

I would speak more of my thoughts but the riddles and possible truths are
infinite and sleep has eluded my troubled mind for long and it seems to now
finally call. I must admit my weariness grew as I wrote and I apologise if the
quality of the work lessened. I encourage any that wish to give thoughts on my
work to do so, I could well use the points of view of others. May night and dream bring you all counsel.

With hopes to hear from you all soon

—Voryn, Dunmeri sorceror and scholar.

> OOC edit that I should have done in the comments before: I’d like to say
> thanks a ton to those who gave feedback, whoever enjoyed the read and
> /r/teslore for inspiration and some of the greatest stuff I’ve ever read.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
