---
series: A Journey into Oblivion
part: 2
title: Coldharbour
subtitle: by Demories Acarelos
reddit: 13ft8u
author: elderscroll_dot_pdf
date: 2012-11-19T06:16:12Z
---

> Author’s Note: The damned printers are absolute imbeciles! They put the wrong
> name on the cover! My name is Acarelos Detelories, dammit!
>
> This time I’d like to request that no inquiry be made in relation to how I
> managed to reach the realm of Coldharbour. It involved some… Unsavory rituals,
> which I’d rather not do again, and would probably not be well received if made
> public. But, that’s beside the point. On with the book…
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

Coldharbour. It is, in every sense of the word, terrifying. For those of you who
experienced the Oblivion Crisis, Coldharbour looks like the city of Kvatch did
after it was ransacked by Daedra. But across all of Tamriel. It was absolutely
spirit-crushing, seeing my favorite places lying in ruin. But it was, at the
same time, a kind of beautiful place. Everything had been replicated, even the
White-Gold Tower was there, but sideways, and smashed upon the Statue of
Akatosh, which met the same fate. The palace of Molag Bal was magnificent, but
horrifying, and I dared not enter it, lest I be struck down immediately or
worse…

The King of Rape granted me access to his realm, but at a terrible cost. The
first places he showed me were my favorite ones. My home, with my family’s
bodies strewn about, as though the place had been raided by bandits. As I have
mentioned, the White-Gold Tower and the Statue of Akatosh, both shattered. The
College of Winterhold, with its massive library floating in the Sea of Ghosts, a
horrific sight for any scholar.

But The Lord of Domination also told me a few things. A few very interesting
things.

> I take it you know of Lorkhan? In yor mortal terms, he might be considered my
> father, but in reality, he is nothing of the sort. He shed me and some of my
> siblings at the beginning of the Wars, and I grew independent, not content to
> just wither and die like many of his other spawn. That’s not to say that he
> and I don’t have anything in common, though. His most mischievous tricks are
> now my most devious tools of domination. I learned from his clever ways, and
> replaced the tricks with applications of force. Rather than convincing
> Creation to occur, I’d force them to give up their power for it. I always
> could use a little more space in the Aurbis under my wing.
>
> Surely a scholar like you has also read of the Pomegranate Banquet? My
> cavorting with the Sharmat Vehk? What an adventure he wound up on after that.
> But it was such fun destroying all those spawns of us after we had finished,
> that I let him get away. Shame what happened to Morrowind, though. So many
> shrines, gone. But so many souls added. Ah, but this probably bores you.
>
> The House of Troubles? Those three are incompetent fools. I’m the only one
> with any sense. Dagon won’t listen to a word anyone says, just wants to stomp
> on everyone and be done with it. Sheogorath can’t keep his nose out of mortal
> affairs for a minute, but he’s certainly a force to be reckoned with when he
> puts his… Mind? Minds? To something. Malacath is a strong one, but a bit dim
> sometimes. Even Boethiah got the better of him. But he’s always willing to
> crush an enemy or foster an outcast at the same moment. And his Orcs. He just
> can’t get enough of them. They are his beloved, but he is the most stern of
> fathers, never showing a hint of compassion, but always helping when the child
> falls. Almost… Admirable. Yet again, I feel like I’m boring you. What else do
> you want?
>
> Vampires? My oh my were they a fun accident. Quite proud of my work on that
> one, I must say. They emulate me impeccably well. Always trying to rule
> everyone, asserting their dominance by feeding on the mortals. That Harkon in
> Skyrim really does it well. He’s even trying to blot out Magnus. He won’t
> last, though. They never do. Always some good bastard comes strutting in to
> save the day. The bad guy can never have his way, can he? But anyway, now I’m
> bored. I’ve tired of your presence, now return to your sad little realm and
> live to die another day.

With that I was returned to Mundus, and I wrote what I heard and saw. Where to
next, though?
