---
title: The Form of the Atronachs
reddit: 1455tg
author: Ishullanu
date: 2012-12-02T07:27:08Z
---

As commonly known, Atronachs are a form of Daedra who are physical
manifestations of their particular element, the most prevalent examples being
frost, flame, and storm. They are favored by conjurers as they seem less
ambitious or malevolent as other daedra, and with no individual loyalties to a
Daedric Prince they are overall easier to control. An interesting phenomena is
the various reported outward appearances of these elemental atronachs, which
seem to change based on the province they are summoned into. Considering that
these atronachs are essentially just elemental powers given manifestations, it
is unlikely that they have a set preference on how they wish their summoned form
to appear, as long as they are true to their nature aesthetics wouldn’t be a
concern. I posit what shape and characteristics an atronach takes on is
determined by the predominant cultural view of that atronach’s element. Put
simply, an atronach appears to look like whatever the local people feel it
should look like. This relationship is most clear when comparing flame or frost
atronachs, particularly with Tamrelic provinces with radically different
climates.

First let us examine the [Flame Atronach’s appearance in Morrowind][0]. Here we
see a clearly masculine figure, aggressive in its stance and demeanor. This
flame atronach has sharp features, the blocky spiked armor creates a definite
aura of immediate danger. His movements are deliberate and forceful, moving
across the ashlands with a confident sense of belonging. All of these qualities
mirror how the Dunmeri people view the element of flame, especially those who
lived on the island of Vvardenfell. Those who lived in the shadow of Red
Mountain knew that fire could be an hostile and persistent force. Groups who
traveled across Vvardenfell consistently braved intense heat and open lava, in
addition to the ever-present threat of full eruption. Even though the Dunmer had
grown accustomed to fire, it was not seen as a comfort but as a threat.

These feeling on the nature of fire contrast sharply with the views of the Nords
in Skyrim, and non-coincidentally so too does the [manifestation of the Flame
Atronach.][1] An obvious difference in the Skyrim variant is its gendered
characteristics, distinct feminine features are undeniably present. Not seen
here is much of the bulky straightforwardness of Vvardenfell atronach, armor is
sparse, creating not much more than a silhouette. Some horns are present, but
nothing directly threatening. The appearance brings with it a change in
presence, Skyrim’s flame atronachs move with a distinct grace, literally
floating over the terrain. As inappropriate as it may sound, the Skyrim
atronach’s movements suggest an intentional allure, with flips and twirls that
serve no non-aesthetic purpose. This perfectly reflects the Nords’ covetous
relationship with fire, in the coldest land in Tamerial in is understandable
that warmth is a desirable thing. The atronachs flighty and quick movements over
the ground could be representing the fleeting nature of heat in the frozen
wastelands. So here, in contrast to the harsh and fierce eastern flame
atronachs, Nord culture produces an atronach that while still clearly dangerous
shows the seductive comfort inherent in the element it represents.

Interestingly enough the [flame atronachs seen in Cyrodiil][2] seem to be a
blend of aspects of Skyrim’s and Morrowind’s atronachs. While still female in
appearance, the Cyrodilic flame atronach is missing much of the elegance found
in the Skyrim variant. This can easily be explained by Cyrodiil’s temperate
climate, the Imperials know not the adversarial relationship with fire brought
by proximity to Red Mountain, nor the deep necessity for fire felt in the colder
provinces.

Moving on to frost atronachs, with these creatures the cultural divergences are
even more apparent. The [Morrowind frost atronach][3] while quite intimidating,
does not denote a culture possessing profound familiarity with the element of
ice. Other than the few icicle spikes and the vapor aura, there is little that
represents this atronach’s element. In Vvardenfell there are not many places one
would encounter natural ice, and would more likely come across it as an
offensive weapon of some monster or man. So the ice atronach reinforces that
link, portraying itself as little more than a warrior of ice.

[Skyrim’s frost atronach][4] is a sentient mountain of ice. There is almost no
characterization of the ice, because it is not necessary. The Nords have
understanding of cold, they spend their whole lives fighting against its
ravages, this intimacy produces a form that is little more than an animation of
what already exists.

Again, Cyrodiil experiences a [balance between the two extremes][5], having more
experience with ice than Morrowind the atronachs incorporate appropriate shapes,
but Imperials lack the total acceptance of the cold that allows the the Nords to
see frost atronachs without humanization.

If this theory of societal belief and interpretation effecting an atronach’s
physical forms is correct, then it would be an interesting barometer used to
determine a culture’s relationship with their environment. For example, would
the Bosmer of the heavily forested Valenwood create flame atronachs that echo
the vulnerability they might have with fire? Could the Red Year of warped the
Vvardenfell flame atronach into an even more ferocious creature for the Dunmer,
or would their exodus to Solstheim move their collective view of flame closer to
the longing of the Nords? And one final supposition, could an individual’s
emotions towards an element be powerful enough to overwhelm the views of their
people, and summon forth an atronach that assumes a form representing what this
element means to specifically that individual?

[0]: https://i.imgur.com/kn4UU.jpg
[1]: https://i.imgur.com/qTbUe.jpg
[2]: https://i.imgur.com/oQpYN.jpg
[3]: https://i.imgur.com/Ke66F.jpg
[4]: https://i.imgur.com/NoyVM.jpg
[5]: https://i.imgur.com/6ZQZ7.jpg
