---
title: The Unburning Flames
subtitle: Proper Use of Pyromancy
reddit: 14zif3
author: Ishullanu
date: 2012-12-17T08:43:31Z
---

It is often said, by those with little to no experience in the field, that
destruction is the most brutish form of magical expression. These uninformed
critics claim it to be without subtlety, a release of un-tempered power
requiring only base involvement of one’s spirit and mind. Of course, this view
is a complete mischaracterization of a noble school, nothing more than slanders
stemming from either the superstitious fear of primal forces present in the
non-magical populace or coming from the other magical schools’ self-indulgent
elitism. The easiest way to show the error in these common conceptions of
destruction magic is to examine the complexity, forethought, and self-discipline
inherent in the most common form of offensive destruction: pyromancy.
Specifically, let us explore how adept pyromancers have developed the ability to
use fire to injure and kill, but without the fire ever truly burning their
target.

This concept of the unburning flame may sound like nonsense, but it is an
essential principle for any respectable mage whom wields fire as their chosen
weapon. This phenomenon is accomplished through the establishment of a magicka
tether between the pyromancer and their flame. Instead of flinging fires out to
consume whatever fuel they might find, the pyromancer feeds magicka through this
link, keeping the flames satiated and dependent. Balancing the link is of the
utmost importance; giving too little of one’s magicka reserves will cause the
fire to fizzle out, while too much magicka can drive a mage quickly to
exhaustion. With its need for nourishment met by the the magicka tether, the
flame has neither an incentive to move beyond the area the mage intended or any
inclination toward blackening and blistering.

While this may seem undesirable for someone looking to use fire as a weapon, two
aspects of the flame go unaltered: the heat and the force. A flame using magical
accelerants can reach high temperatures in incredibly short times, enveloping a
foe and heating their body past its ability to function (though this can be more
difficult to achieve with the Dunmer, as their innate threshold for heat
tolerance is significantly higher). As for the force aspect of pyromancy, a
genuine fireball (accomplished by sending concentrated fire out then
dramatically increasing its magicka supply on impact) can produce a blast as
crushing as a blow from the largest of war-hammers.

With all the delicate focus required in this type of pyromancy, one might ask
would it not be more common for a mage to just let loose their flames to do what
comes naturally? Though pyromancers of rumor and fiction so regularly leave
their enemies charred to crisps, any who observe these mages in battle would see
that this is rarely the case. To use flame magicks in the stereotypically
volatile way would be a practical debacle, endangering not only the caster but
the entire surrounding area. To bring forth a flame without properly limiting
its desire to scorch will allow it to spread beyond its intended target, leading
to a literal backfire upon the spellcaster. If the practitioners of the school
of destruction were as deficient in restraint and judgment as they are so
commonly discussed as being, the forests around every major magical community
would be nothing but ashes and cinders.

Though a pyromancer’s control of their flames is not exclusively for concerns of
safety, many learn the proper technique because of their regard to honor,
morality, or personal gain. When a mage so publicly defiles a living body with
un-reigned fire, the grotesque spectacle can only serve to lower the repute of
that mage and the association they represent, at worst gaining enemies looking
for justifiable retribution. Those more interested in wealth than matters of
honor still have reasons to hold back their flame, as the loot they covet on
their victims would be unlikely to survive the ravages of indiscriminate fires.
Even those as depraved as necromancers have reason to temper their attacks, as
the damage of actually burning the body could destroy whatever usefulness that
figure had.

It must be addressed that there are indeed mages who forgo the appropriate
etiquette of pyromancy, but they should not be made the basis of destruction
mages’ reputation. The mages who allow their flames to burn do so either out of
their own inexperience and ignorance of correct form, or because they take such
a sadistic joy in their bringing about suffering and chaos that they throw their
own safety to the wind. Both types of these pyromancers quickly find themselves
dead, either claimed by their own uncontrollable flames or dealt with through
the intervention of those they have harmed. To judge the whole school of
destruction off of the failures of these few would be akin to disparaging mages
for the ruin wrought by a dragon’s fire.
