---
title: A Boy and His Dog
reddit: 15g8qz
author: Voryn
date: 2012-12-26T03:54:13Z
about: |
  Hello everyone, Merry Christmas, hope the holidays are going well for all of
  you. I thought I’d share a little something I made a few days ago off the top
  of my head. I don’t know if its good, so I’ll leave it for you guys to judge.
  I based it on the fact that this guy/thing was not in the original pantheons,
  none of them in fact even through cross-referencing, so I decided to put a
  twist on the story saying he was once just a boy – and his dog.

  I’m not spoiling it, though you’ll probably guess who before the end. Anyhow,
  just thought I’d share it; enjoy and have a great year.
---

Many an end and beginning ago, [](){:tag="br"}
There once was a boy and his dog, [](){:tag="br"}
one day strolling by a log, [](){:tag="br"}
far from the village and through the fog.

Shortly acquainted, swiftly friends, [](){:tag="br"}
the two had saved each other from many ends, [](){:tag="br"}
but from what came next, [](){:tag="br"}
of no vigil nor valiance had they been blest.

For a thing not quite man and not quite wolf [](){:tag="br"}
leapt forth, eyes wild, fangs bared, and gripped the dog. [](){:tag="br"}
And in bloody strife, their mirth and bond did it engulf. [](){:tag="br"}
But for the sun, the victim would not have been relinquished.

Wrapped in interim of far night and early day, [](){:tag="br"}
the boy weeped, not an inkling of once-joy within his bones. [](){:tag="br"}
At this bitter misfortune he mourned and lamented as the dog ebbed to his final
dusk. [](){:tag="br"}
He cried and begged for any and all gods unravel this callous end.
[](){:tag="br"}
No peace came from beyond the stars, no salvation, no voice. [](){:tag="br"}
Save one

“Forsooth terrible was the misfortune that coerced you here. [](){:tag="br"}
Your agony I know, yet I could put it in a throe, [](){:tag="br"}
for nothing but a single condition, shall the wound go”

The boy knew of the voice, daedroth was its kin. [](){:tag="br"}
Old and mischevious and dispassionate. [](){:tag="br"}
Save for its lust of mischief.

Betwixt pain and grief, the boy could no longer reason. [](){:tag="br"}
“From dusk to dawn shall he be?” [](){:tag="br"}
“And more, but never again shall he bring you the comfort he once did,
[](){:tag="br"}
hindrance and vexation to your every doing.”

First by pain and grief, [](){:tag="br"}
and soon by powers beyond belief, [](){:tag="br"}
shall the boy’s judgement ever be veiled. [](){:tag="br"}
Readily he agreed, so ruination thus curtailed, [](){:tag="br"}
heart brimming with joy, he did not yet know, [](){:tag="br"}
his soul defiled to the very crux.

With every heart-beat didst the dog grow warmer, [](){:tag="br"}
and the boy, colder. [](){:tag="br"}
For none too soon were they home, [](){:tag="br"}
that the boy developped a taste for devilry. [](){:tag="br"}
So much so that he relished it with great gusto. [](){:tag="br"}
Yet as the word of daedroth stated [](){:tag="br"}
the dog always attempted to halt what the boy plotted.

So did it go, one schemed, the other foiled. [](){:tag="br"}
And for many years did this persist [](){:tag="br"}
Early was it that the fisherman cursed the bear for his interfering
[](){:tag="br"}
so it was his door unlocked and honey trailed up to his bed [](){:tag="br"}
Fortune or mis was it that the tax-collector’s bag bled? [](){:tag="br"}
Or that the lumber-jacks before tree-wives had fled?

Keener didst the boy’s mind grow, [](){:tag="br"}
ears athirst for knowledge, [](){:tag="br"}
eyes hungering for happenstance, [](){:tag="br"}
and many gardens of misery did he tend, [](){:tag="br"}
with the dog as his sole torment.

Wily and insidious was now the boy. [](){:tag="br"}
So saturated and enraptured by his work, [](){:tag="br"}
that the dog’s rescuer had come with an offer.

Delighted and engrossed with the boy, [](){:tag="br"}
the daedroth offered him a place by his side, [](){:tag="br"}
to do as he does, here, there, and by all the five corners.

The boy pondered but knew, what terms must now be struck? [](){:tag="br"}
the voice cackled and seemed to grin behind its star-void veil; [](){:tag="br"}
“Trifle and trivial, paltry and slight, all you must do, is take the dog too,
[](){:tag="br"}
forever to be a part of you.”

Flustered and rattled, the boy considered. [](){:tag="br"}
But soon with a frown-cloaked-smile, joined the prince in Oblivion,
[](){:tag="br"}
and so stood he then, at the foundation of apotheosis.

Not for a day did he linger, [](){:tag="br"}
and swiftly he came to every prayer. [](){:tag="br"}
Whether cursed or praised, he left by giving his name, [](){:tag="br"}
replacing and usurping his master’s fame

But also higher now than normal man, [](){:tag="br"}
the dog enjoyed a new consciousness, [](){:tag="br"}
and weaving reason into his own canvas. [](){:tag="br"}
He knew to not now trouble the boy, [](){:tag="br"}
for he knew his ambition [](){:tag="br"}
and better was he for that which was his intention. [](){:tag="br"}
All the dog could bring was admonition

The boy toiled diligently, and skillfully, [](){:tag="br"}
weaving lies of his power wedded to promises of rewards, [](){:tag="br"}
but for loyalty and the dissemination of his name

And soon, the boy’s rubric, and not the Daedroth’s [](){:tag="br"}
was the one recognized as lord of wishes. [](){:tag="br"}
Too late did the prince realize, [](){:tag="br"}
the boy’s power exceeded his own.

So it is said that the boy tore out the face of the quondam prince,
[](){:tag="br"}
and claimed it and plane and power as his own.

Prince unto void, [](){:tag="br"}
Boy unto prince

Vile was never his name, [](){:tag="br"}
but it became his game.
