---
series: A Translation and Interpretation of the Mysterium Xarxes
part: 1
title: From the Deserts of Rust and Wounds to Camoran’s Paradise
reddit: 15gbha
author: Rileyman360
date: 2012-12-26T04:46:15Z
---

Public readings of this translation will take place during the Warriors’
Festival and can be found in Wolverine Hall in the Mages’ Guild (all guild
guides will be out of service for the entire day). Public readings will have the
first edition copy of the Mysterium Xarxes displayed and readings will be read
by famous voices of Divayth Fyr, Lucien Lachance, and Fargoth.

----

The infamous book, The Mysterium Xarxes, is a wretched piece of literature.
Written by the prince of destruction, the book is riddled with daedric script
and within those scripts hold riddles and encantations themselves. Some ask what
allowed Mankar Camoran to teleport to his paradise for safety from the blades
during the Oblivion crisis. At first my thoughts were, “it’s obviously the text
that opened the portal”. However, a rough translation and interpretation has led
me to believe other wise. It seems that the text themselves don’t just give
power, but maybe summons it.

[The first page of the Divine-forsaken book][0] displays the infamous “O” in the
center of a circle surrounded by daedric script. The script that follow the axis
of the circles edge read as so:

> For lord Dagon Forever reborn in blood and fire from the waters of Oblivion

Now, there is no specific iteration of portals to paradise. This seems to just
serve as the main excerpt for giving thanks to Dagon. Like all daedric worship,
it is important to remember what please the princes, lest you displease them.
Maybe this script is to bring Dagon’s focus on you and place interest in your
current affairs/goals.

The left text holds itself in a wrangled mess, this translation can be as useful
as conjecture:

> When I walo the earth again thef\_a ith fulamong ou\_sha\_llre

This is when we can deduce that this is written from Dagon’s point of view. It
lacks proper grammar along with actual words. Though barely translatable, the
passage seems to say “when I wallow the earth again the faithful among you shall
rise/return/rebel”. It seems that Dagon’s plans for the Oblivion crisis were
thought out well in advance. This seems to bring the conclusion that Camoran
maybe did not create the Paradise himself or place into effect the events of the
crisis, but rather Dagon was waiting for an appropriate candidate to fulfill it.

The writings on the right go as so:

> above all other mortals forever. Ceiveour reward tobeset

Now this is a little tricky. The first part is distinguishable and gives us a
clear statement. The second, however, eludes me along with other scholars. What
I may deduce from the secondphrase can be a number of things.

- the roht in “forever” is carried on into the beginning, an ekhem is left out,
  but we get “receiveour” or “receive our”

- with that in mind we get, “receive our reward to beset” as in to receive a
  lavished or archaic (as what beset seems most nearly mean in this sentence).

- also, “receive our reward to be set” as a sign to say a reward is to be given,
  but the treasures of it are still up to debate.

In the end we conclude the statement to be, “above all other mortals forever
receive our reward to beset/to be set”.

The final statement states:

> As for the rest … the weak shall cast down the might … Shall trem

This is the final elusive statement of the first page to Dagon’s
prophecy/summoning rites. One can assume that might is actually suppose to
translate as mighty (Y is not used in common daedric script and its presence is
assumed by the spacing). The last word may potentially be tremble, Dagon’s
literature capabilities are well known to be sub-par and he may have
accidentally run out room when writing the Xarxes. But we infer that the weak
ate his followers (weak in terms of power and control of Tamriel) and the mighty
is the empire (holding control of all of Tamriel).

I do hope this is a good translation to run on. My lore on Dagon still has a few
holes in it and might very well have affected the text in a negative way. I
shall be …

[0]: https://images.uesp.net/e/e0/Mysterium_Xarxes_P1.jpg
