---
series: A Translation and Interpretation of the Mysterium Xarxes
part: 2
title: From the Deserts of Rust and Wounds to Camoran’s Paradise
reddit: 15qn36
author: Rileyman360
date: 2012-12-31T20:28:24Z
---

I would like to point out that the public readings at Wolverine Hall went
unexpectedly. A lot of the members planing on showing up seemed to have lost the
way. The correction of the translation was nice until a naughty Daedra
approached me and almost spoiled the second page. Luckily my silence spell was
quicker than his lips. Please no conjuring Daedra until the end of the reading.
Now without further delay.

----

[The second page of the Mysterium Xarxes][0] seems to differentiate itself from
the previous page. Tremble from the last statement seems to be the final
statement so for now, we shall assume that this marks a new statement. From the
very top we are given a new statement:

> Come slow and bring four kes

Now, what is meant by this? My guess, though a long shot, would be that kes
means Keys since Yahkem is commonly omitted. Four keys are required, but for
what? To reach Camoran’s Paradise, to summon Dagon? What are the four keys? The
Tribunal’s “Four Corners of the House of Troubles”, which Dagon is a part of?
Dagon’s four artifacts (his razor, the Daedric crescent, the Mysterium Xarxes,
maybe the Commentaries)? The four volumes of the Mythic Dawn Commentaries? That
being said, one does require all four Commentaries in order to be a part of
Dagon’s cult, so this may very well be the keys.

There are four different bodies of text all start out with a certain number. On
the left below the first statement, we get the first numbered text:

> Mother | in m(y) first arm a storm

We now move on to the second numbered statement on the upper right hand side of
the page:

> M(y)-sec-ond-the-rus-h\_-of-pla-gue-d\_rai-n\_

Which translates to “my second the, the rush of plagued rain”. We now move to
the third numbered statement located at the lower left hand corner of the center
triangle figure:

> the third all the tinder of anu

The final numbered statement located adjacent to the third:

> the fourth the ver\_ e\_es of padhome

All these seen to suggests what powers are held within Dagon’s hands. The first
arm (his upper right hand) holds a great storm of destruction. His second arm
(upper left) holds a rain of plagues. Most likely the rain from the storm. The
third arm (lower right hand) holds the tinder of Anu. Anu, of course, is the
being who fell in love with Nir and impregnated her with life and creation.
Tinder is a substance that is flammable. Could the tinder be a reference to the
burning hatred Anu had for Padomey when Padomey struck down Nir? Nir’s Death
could be the “tinder” of destruction, since Nirn was on the brink of it when I
first was born. The final statement could be translated as “the fourth the very
eyes of Padhome”. Padhome is another name for Padomay. Padomey’s eyes lusted for
the beauty of Nir. This brought Padomey to strike down Nir and cause the first
act of destruction. The last two hands of Dagon seem to suggest that he believes
he is the beginning, the being, and the cause of all destruction and change.
These four arms may also be a reference to the four keys mentioned before…
*hand* *forgive my childish behavior*{:tag="small"}.

Around the triangle holds different tid bits of titles and objects. From top
going clockwise:

> to, e-s-tr-o, er-akin-miasma, master-is-master

The only noticeable thing here is something akin to miasma (nasty smell) and
master is master.

The final statement at the very bottom states:

> Be winnowed the timid shall be ble_ at m(y) feet and pra(y) pardon

The statement suggests that the followers of Dagon will be winnowed from the
timid, or “separated from them by wind”. “Ble_ at my feet” seems to elude me
along with its meaning. “Pray for pardon” suggests that obviously the Mythic
Dawn cultists should always beg for Dagon’s mercy from the destruction from his
hands.

To finish off, the Mysterium Xarxes seems to be more of a summoning rite for
Mehrunes Dagon. It tells us of Dagon’s plan for the Oblivion Crisis and what he
does for his followers in return for their worship. It holds hymns for him, a
summoning chant, and all the works. What does this mean? It means that Mankar
Camoran wasn’t all that powerful, nor was the actual book. Camoran, during his
escape from the Blades, most likely summoned Dagon and performed a ritual in
order to gain access to Paradise. The book is only powerful in the sense that it
will help summon Mehrunes Dagon for you. Hopefully we can shed some light on the
situation at hand with the power of the Mysterium Xarxes and the Mankar Camoran.
You may now conjure your Daedra to help bring light to this. Anhaedra may be
allowed to enter now as long as his temper is kept in check.

*—Wulf Braveheart*

[0]: https://images.uesp.net/6/69/Mysterium_Xarxes_P2.jpg
