---
title: Borgas, the Fool-King
reddit: 15rc90
author: dbcification
date: 2013-01-01T04:41:50Z
---

> Translator’s note: This story was found in a recent excavation in one of the
> old Nordic ruins. Apparently the author was preparing this story for children,
> as it features simple religious allegories, and easy language for the time.
> This “Middle-Nordic”, as a group of scholars I showed this work to dubbed it,
> appears to be a mix of Nedic languages and the Old Draconic the peoples of
> Skyrim were prone to speak. Translation is rough, but not terribly hard.
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

----

Old King Borgas had a dream, a dream in Winterhold he dreamed. He dreamed a
great Dragon flew down to where he stood, a Dragon fierce of Tongue and black of
wing. It Spoke. “Ho ha ho! O Borgas-King, ruler of the little
land-that-was-once-my-kin’s, why are you abed? You must away, away to crush the
little not-men who live in the deep woods that lie beyond your Alessia’s jungled
realm! For they are the last threat to the Order you swore to support, and once
they are gone, there will be peace, and your kin shall rule all of this land!”

So King Borgas rose from his bed, and prepared for war. He marched south, past
the great hill where sat Jorrvaskr, home of the great Companions of Ysgramor,
Borgas’ kin-father. Borgas supped with the noble warriors who dwelt there, and
arose the next morning, intent on crossing the Great Mountains down into the
jungled south. But before he could leave, a Man, fair of hair, but worn and
haggard, ran up to him.

He Spoke: “Borgas, King of Skyrim, do not pursue this foolishness! For as I am,
you shall be worse! Stay, do not invoke the wrath of these Elves, for you will
be Hunted down and ended! Heed my words!”

But Borgas thought of the words of the Dragon, and said “Ho ha ho! Who are you
to question my will? If I shall go South, as I will, it is not I who shall be
Hunted, but the Elf-kin who make trouble for the Cyrodiils in their land! Stand
aside, you wretched villain, or I’ll have you strung up by your legs and kept
imprisoned!” And the King and his army rode on.

They reached the pass southward, the way through the Mountains. There, they were
met by a she-Wolf. She too Spoke, with the voice of a maiden fair. “O Borgas,
King of these people, do not go south! Only death awaits you and your kin! You
will be Hunted to the ends of this world, and not one of your line will survive
it! Take pity on the lives of your kin and return to the snow-bound palace of
your fathers!”

But Borgas again thought of the words of the Dragon, and scorned the she-Wolf.
He said “Ho ha ho! Who are you, fool Wolf, to question a king of men? For I am a
Tongue, strong and proud! I am of the line of Ysgramor, and I shall not fail!
Away from me, I say, away! Leave us be, or I shall wear your fur as a cloak!”
And the King and his army rode on.

They reached the great Tower White-Gold, where there others of the Order of
Alessia were gathered. King Borgas told them of his plan, and of his dream of
the mighty Dragon, and they agreed that it was a sign of his divinely-given
victory. They stayed in the City there for a fortnight, and set out for the
borders of the jungled land of Cyrodiil. As they stepped out of the jungles, an
old Fox, fur streaked with silver, called out to the King. He spoke. “Borgas!
King over men from distant lands! Turn back, for the Hunt shall soon be upon
you! Leave while you and your line still may, for I tell you, the forests of
Valenwood will be your doom. Your land will be torn asunder! Turn back, you
Fool-hearted King, turn back!”

But Borgas again thought of the words of the Dragon, and scorned the Fox. He
said, “Ho ha ho! Who are you, cowardly little Fox, to speak to me of fate? For I
am fated to crush these tree-dwelling Elves beneath my boots, and your portents
of doom will not dissuade me! Away from me, I say, away!”

But the Fox Spoke again. “You have made your choice then. Fool-King Borgas, and
by my whiskers, your lands shall be rent by War. Your heirs will be struck down,
and the line of Ysgramor shall be Hunted down to the last, even to the bastards
hidden from all knowledge. The land is rent from you, and your people shall go
their own way. But you, fool that you are, shall not enter into My realm. You
may keep your crown of power for a time, till one more worthy than you takes it
again. Go now to your doom.” And the Fox ran up, and bit the King.

Borgas drew a knife and killed the Fox. His men quaked with fear, but he roused
them with strong Voice, and they went onward.

But the words of the Fox were a dire foretelling, for the Elves of Valenwood
they did not find. Instead, a horde of beasts, beasts more fearsome and terrible
than any could imagine, charged out at the King and his army from the forests.
Borgas was struck down, and he breathed his last under the boughs of a mighty
oak tree. His generals ordered a retreat, and his body was rushed off of the
field.

The dead were many, for the Wild Hunt of the Bosmer spared none, and only those
quick enough to escape did so. All the King’s sons fell in that terrible rout,
and the King was quickly buried in a grand tomb he had prepared for himself.
Fearing the words of the Fox, the men left the Jagged Crown of Ysgramor’s line
with him, his eternal keepsake. They sealed that place, and forgot about the
Fool-King, King Borgas, for kinsman fought against kinsman in a bitter war for
the Throne of Ysgramor.

Guard well against foolishness, youth of noble Skyrim, for it can bring down
timeless lines more powerful than even the Dragons of old. Its wiles can destroy
a seasoned warrior even as a plains-cat may a deer. Take heed from the life of
old King Borgas, and live better than he.
