---
title: The Elder Way, Hist Genetics, and Argonian Reincarnation
reddit: 161yk6
author: xenoposeidon
date: 2013-01-06T08:45:58Z
---

The simplest way a common Argonian would explain to an Imperial interviewer as
to what happens to an Argonian after death is that they are rejoined with the
Hist and reincarnated into a new body. This has some truth in it, yes, but is
very unspecific and does not contain the whole truth. To understand the full
truth, one has to first understand Hist-altering, A.K.A the Elder Way. In *Lord
of Souls*, it is revealed that the Hist can “alter things”. More specifically,
one case of their altering of “things” is them altering the Argonian physical
composition to make Argonians much stronger, faster, and more intelligent when
they needed the Argonians to be extra-efficient soldiers in the Oblivion Crisis.
Glim specifically states that “A few twelves of years ago, our country was
invaded from Oblivion. The Hist knew it was going to happen, and called our
people back to Black Marsh. Many of us were altered, made ready for the war that
we had to fight. Made stronger, faster—able to endure terrible things. …” We
also know that Hist Sap can also alter the Argonian physical state, as Hist sap
transforms Argonians at childhood from small primitive lizards to tall humanoid
lizards. The more Hist sap that is taken, the more humanoid the Argonian looks.

And finally we know Hist can alter themselves. The Lilmoth tree is described as
gigantic and overreaching, and the Hist we see in *Oblivion* is not exactly
gigantic and overreaching, yet all Hist are equal and look the same originally.
We know Hist can alter things, and why not themselves? It seems only reasonable
a Hist whose purpose is to give political advice would look fearsome and
powerful, and that another who is cut away from its brothers would be frail and
small. Another theory I have come up with is that Falinesti is in fact a Hist
that has disconnected from the Hivemind, i.e gone “Rogue” in order to adapt for
a changing environment and culture, and thus grew ways to move around and be
favorable for the populace of Bosmer.

Contrary to what one may think, Hist alterting is definitely not alteration
magic. Neither is it magic at all, really. Hist altering is a technique of
super-evolution older than any kind of magic or ascension. The Hist were in fact
the first beings on Nirn, and had plenty of time to develop their ways. This
technique is so old and complex a simple human or mer mind could not comprehend
it, only a super advanced one, such as the mind of a Psijic monk.

From [On Arteaum][0] we know that the first beings on Tamriel (The Hist) taught
the Psijics the Elder Way, a way of changing the natural composition of things.
This fits perfectly with the theory. So, from now on in this explanation I will
refer to Hist Super-evolution-altering as The Elder Way.

I myself have a very limited understanding of Genetics, as one would expect from
someone my age and educational grade, but I’m still going to do my best to use
it in comparison. Where magic is based on Magicka, the Elder Way is based on
something I can only identify as the Elder Scrolls counterpart of DNA or the
genetic composition of different living things. In simplicity, the Elder Way is
really a fancy term for purposeful mutation. If a Hist such as the Lilmoth tree
wants to look more fearsome and gigantic, it simply has to use its
hyper-intelligence to think its nucleotide sequence into changing around,
composing a new sequence that would allow for the genomes to develop
differently, and the result would be a larger Hist. There you have it, I just
terribly explained mutation. Anyways the same works for Hist Sap ingestion.
Think of the Hist and Argonians as computers and sap as a flash drive. The Hist
set a certain blueprint for Elder Way Mutation in the sap, basically like data,
shed the sap, and the sap is then taken and willfully ingested by the young
Argonian. Then this data is transferred, and the sap runs the data like a
program, mutating the Argonian. The more sap is ingested, the more data can be
transferred and the program or mutation can run more effectively. The reason
ingestion has to be done over and over again and that Argonians are not born
like their parents is because Argonians are unable to ejaculate part of the sap
to their egg spawns and thus transfer the program nor can they themselves alter
the child because they cannot comprehend the Elder Way.

The neat thing is that through seeing that the Hist were able to mutate
Argonians from afar at the time of the Oblivion Crisis we can see that the Hist
can actually transmit data to the Sap from far away. Think of this kind of like
Elder Way mutation internet or cloud data. From this we can hypothesize on what
happens when Argonians die.

Let’s get an example going. Say we have an Argonian, we’ll call him Jeelus from
the Agaceph tribe. When Jeelus turned 1 year old, his dad Zeeril took him to
ingest some sap and get named. Jeelus happily did his duty as an Argonian and
ingested some sap from the local village tree. Once he did, the sap took control
of his body and used the Elder Way to turn him into a nice, tall, handsome young
Argonian. Now let’s say Mr. Jeelus grows up and works with the East Empire
Company, and on one of his trips suddenly falls overboard from his ship and gets
eaten by a Sea Drake. Once the jaws of death sink on him and his brain stops
functioning, the sap mutation program realizes the Argonian died, and thus
gathers all the info on how to mutate an Argonian to look and be as strong as
Jeelus, making it into, you guessed it, blueprints! It sends those blueprints
back to the Hist, who then takes those blueprints and puts them into yet another
sap flash drive to insert into yet another newborn Argonian, who is by chance
the nephew of Jeelus. Jeelus’s nephew then grows up to look and be as strong as
Jeelus. The nephew’s dad, Jeelus’ egg mate, looks at his newly ingested son and
exclaims, “Xuth! My boy sure does look like his uncle Jeelus. I bet he is a
reinacarnation of him!” and thus the cycle completes itself and that is how
Argonian reincarnation works.

Since this process is so successful, and “reincarnation” is so common, death is
viewed as a major part of Argonian culture, which is also why many Argonians
have a belief in Sithis. Sadly, though, it is not Sithis that causes the
reincarnation but rather the manipulative Hist.

> I hope that was not too complex. I tried to do it in ELI5 format, so I hope
> this theory is well understood by you guys. If you folks are interested do
> stay tuned for later posts, I am starting what I think may be a series of
> these theory threads, so keep your eyes out for new ones.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}

That is all. See you tomorrow in the Community Thread.

[0]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Fragment:_On_Artaeum
