---
title: Alkosh, His Children and Lorkhaj’s Tricks
reddit: 16jn6k
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-01-14T10:27:11Z
---

Alkosh, his children and Lorkhaj’s tricks.

## ALKOSH

You know of Alkosh. The first child of Ahnurr and Fadomai gifted with time.
Alkosh sees all time and knows all of time. In fact, sometimes Alkosh even
writes time himself, or does it with his children. Khajiit read the books and
hear the stories of the worlds beginning, but what few often realise is many had
plans for this world, not just Nirni or Lorkhaj. Alkosh had his own special
plans for the new place.

Alkosh had children, who he would send onto Nirni. His first child would be
different from the others, the cub would have fur as black as Namiira and wings
that would cover whole deserts. He was born as hungry as Hircine, but would
sleep until Alkosh made the time wake him and when he woke he would feast on the
new creations on Nirni until Alkosh decided it was time to fight Lorkhaj once
again.

Alkosh’s children were very powerful, but he could not rely on them to write the
biggest chapters in time’s book. When Alkosh needed people to make the time, he
had children with Nirni and they would be blessed by Alkosh. These children were
different, they had the bodies of Nirni’s children but the blood of Alkosh and
his spirit, like the other children of Alkosh but in a different body. The
Cyro-Nords call these children “Dragonborn”, they are foolish. How could they be
this if they are born from the time-cat Alkosh and Nirni? But there is some
truth to these fools tales, for they are indeed born from Alkosh’s blood and
spirit; shame that they do not know their heroes’ origin.

Perhaps the most important of Alkosh and Nirni’s children was the Emperor Tiber
Septim. Khajiit may ask “why would Alkosh make a child to recreate the Empire?”
Well this one tells you, Khajiit live how we live and we are happy with it, but
the other children of Nirni do not think like us and need a noisy empire to rule
them. Tiber Septim was a talented child, he knew Nirni like he knew himself.

Now, Khajiit have also had children of Alkosh, but Khajiit already knows the
stories of them and we will not talk of it here in case a child of Ahnurr finds
this.

## LORKHAJ

You know of Lorkhaj. The last child of Ahnurr and Fadomai, tainted with
darkness. Lorkhaj is tricky and noisy, Khajiit learn from his tricks to hide
ourselves from children of Ahnurr, but we also learn that not all tricks can be
good. Lorkhaj was much like Khajiit in many ways, Lorkhaj could hide his nature
but could also climb very well. Some say that when Lorkhaj climbed, he saw a
message telling him to make the new place for Nirni, others say he saw the
mother that birthed Ahnurr and Fadomai; this is something the Clan Mothers don’t
even know, but the Mane refuses to tell them about Lorkhaj’s climb.

When Lorkhaj made the new place for Nirni with his brothers and sisters he
harmed and killed many, even hurting his sister. But when Alkosh and the
survivors cursed noisy Lorkhaj, they made sure to change Lorkhaj as much as they
could. Lorkhaj was changed from a cat into a man, taking away his skill to climb
by himself and his ability to deceive others well. Now Lorkhaj had to walk Nirni
without talents that Khajiit have, but he is still most tricky and powerful.
Khajiit is lucky he did not hear Azurah’s secrets.

Lorkhaj still tricks many into following him and has given himself many names,
an attempt to be as tricky as he once was. Lorkhaj has walked many times in the
cold land Atmora, once as “the fox” and once as "Ysmir". Lorkhaj is a patron to
men, for he pities the form that he must take on now; this is why Lorkhaj has
helped men so much in the past. Nobody knows what Lorkhaj calls himself now, no
one knows where on Nirni he may be walking either.
