---
title: The Worth of the Soul
subtitle: The Subtext of a Dragon’s Duel
reddit: 170nio
author: Ishullanu
date: 2013-01-21T23:01:03Z
---

It is often said that when two dragons engage in battle, rending each other’s
flesh and the world around them through their powerful Thu’umme, that this is
more than just a simple physical conflict but a complex metaphysical debate.
This can be bewildering to one unfamiliar with the intricacies of the dragon
language and world view, a novice of these subjects seeing only the surface
level of these conflicts, the waves of flame, frost, and pure entropy spilling
forth from the dragon’s maw. As knowledge of the mechanism behind these powers
increases, realizing each one of these great powers is linked to specific words
of power and fueled by the deepest essence of the dragon itself, the literal
label of debate seems wholly fitting.

Though, as with most things, when an individual’s comprehension of dragon
language surpasses a certain level they are thrown back into the realm of
confusion and more questions arise than before they understood the subject at
all. Chief among these questions being, how are the clashes between dragons to
be considered true debates when the vocabulary of power words in each individual
contention rarely reaches more than the same few words repeated again and again?
Which brings about another consideration, if these debates so often play out in
the same way with similar wording, what is the subject being argued?

To address these concerns, it is important to transcend a purely anthropocentric
world view, and consider how there are many ways in which the value system of
dragons diverges entirely from that of mortals. When scholarly mortals present
their arguments it is thought important that they be fact based, supported by
evidence, and appealing towards the subjects intellect. Here it is the objective
content of the words that is the barometer for truth, and many words are
delicately chosen and arranged to try to make them fit the context of the
discussion. To a dragon, such context and subtlety is irrelevant. Individual
words are known to have power in of themselves, they need not be prettied up
through long drawn out sentences, they merely are paired with the few other
words most fitting and said with true conviction.

Indeed, there is what is valued in a dragon’s debate, conviction. The passion
behind the words, the power found in understanding the real meaning of even the
simplest concept, these are what each side is presenting. While Men and Mer seek
to convince through building elaborate structures of words, concepts upon
concepts interwoven together impressively, the dragons’ discourse reaches
towards something profoundly baser. The appeal to emotions is not only
encouraged, it is the only important aspect of the dispute, the shouter is
attempting to show their adversary how deeply they feel the words they speak and
through their Thu’um they make the other dragon feel it too. Still, these words
and their meanings are just the mechanism of showing depth of a dragon’s
emotion, they are but the filters through which the dragon conveys what is
actually being discussed, the superiority of their soul.

A dragon’s soul is immortal, but though it cannot truly be extinguished it can
be forced to change form. If a dragon is bested by a fellow dovah, the soul of
the vanquished actually transfers into the victor. This is what is at stake in a
debate of dragons; this is the subject of their shouts. By channeling the power
of their emotion and understanding through their words these dragons are
attempting to demonstrate the strength of soul, with the end goal of convincing
their opponent that they are more worthy of possessing their soul. When the soul
travels from one dragon to another, it does so willingly, it has not been
trapped but has been shown this is the best thing for it to do, it is better to
be a part of this greater soul than to exist on its own as an inferior. This has
to do with the dragon’s inbred need to dominate; their willingness to become an
aspect of another soul is within character as long that soul has demonstrated it
has the ability to control. So the debate of the dovah is not some petty
squabble of what trivial facts are true or false, but it is a measuring of each
other’s spirit and attempting to determine who possesses a soul worthy to
envelope the others.
