---
title: The Nature-Loving Mer of Tamriel’s South
reddit: 1791f2
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-01-25T11:25:33Z
---

First off, this post isn’t claiming that there was a completely different form
of Mer in Tamriel, it’s just a point at which Bosmer and Khajiit can trace their
lineage back to together, like how the Orsimer can trace themselves back to the
Aldmer who worshipped Trinimac/served in the army.

We all know about the Aldmer, the mer from which all other elves come from, but
the I’m going to focus on a particular sect of mer.

These mer were nature lovers. They loved trees, animals, plants, birds, bugs,
just everything about nature. When they left from Aldmeris they settled in the
southern forests where they always reveled in the beauty of Tamriel’s flora and
fauna.

The Mer had spent such a long time in the forests with the animals they were
often confused as to whether they were mer or beast. If they got along so well
with nature like the beasts, how could they say they were not beasts? But of
course they weren’t like any other beasts, they knew they were mer just like the
others who went to the islands nearby. Beast or Mer was confusing and they would
often consider them one in the same; after all, they saw the men from the north
turning into beast and plant and man again.

These mer were called the Moramer. Mora meaning forests/woods.

They could acknowledge the gift Y’ffre gave men and mer though, giving them
definite shape to stop the chaos of changing forms. However, soon enough the
Moramer would be found in the middle of a conflict between gods.

Azurah called out to Nirni from beyond Jone and Jode, telling her to not be sad
over her favourite people, the Moramer not knowing whether they were children of
Aldmeris or beast of Tamriel. Azurah spoke her first secret and passed by Jone
and Jode, taking some of the Moramer and placing them into the best forests and
deserts on all of Nirni. From there she made Khajiit and bound them to the lunar
lattice.

But Y’ffre overheard the first secret and snuck behind Azurah, watching her
taking and placing some of the Moramer where she deemed fit and changing them.
Y’ffre couldn’t stand what he witnessed and ran off to Nirni telling her about
Azurah’s deeds. Nirni and Y’ffre were quite frankly pissed and negotiated a
deal.

Nirni would make life as hard as possible for the new form, Khajiit, by making
her sands biting hot and her jungles filled with poison; but she would spare the
remaining Moramer whom Y’ffre was allowed to change and as such she would spare
the Moramer land which Azurah deemed not good enough for Khajiit. The land of
Khajiit was to be ruined, but Y’ffre negotiated with Nirni so that some of the
forests could still be beautiful and harmonious. From then Y’ffre left and
Azurah was despised by Nirni. Y’ffre then went to the Moramer of the remaining
forests and changed their form and made sure they knew they were mer and not
beast, unless the gift of Nirni’s deal were to in danger. Y’ffre didn’t have the
knowledge Azurah had, however, and thus could not make the new mer keep their
shape if they had to change into beast. Y’ffre called them Bosmer and from that
point, Khajiit and Bosmer were no longer considered related. The Bosmer and
Khajiit had their own beliefs now, the Bosmer possessing a mixed pantheon of Men
and Mer gods, the Khajiit keeping a more simple and familiar pantheon.

Y’ffre was not done, though. Thinking he could have the upper hand on Azurah,
stood up and yelled out the first secret for all to hear. Again, Y’ffre didn’t
have a foolproof plan, but Azurah swiftly acted where she was needed and blocked
the ears of Lorkhaj and Ahnurr to ensure they would never hear the first secret.
This was the first of times the children of Anu and Padomay could walk upon
Nirni freely, this would not last forever though. The Dragon would interrupt
that, but that’s a story for another time.

> EDIT: I’d also like to thank lebiro for helping me out with the Bosmer stuff I
> was previously unaware of
>
> EDIT: changed “Betmer” to “Moramer” after discovering the term “Betmer” is
> already in use for a different reason and Moramer works better after
> reconsidering it (for the 4th time)
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
