---
title: The Revised Imperial Report on the Origin of the Sload
subtitle: by Flavius Lupus, Synod Scholar
reddit: 17omee
author: b-rad-oleary
date: 2013-02-01T07:13:12Z
---

> I’d like to point out that this piece has been submitted (by me) before, but
> is  *heavily* revised. To see the difference: [Original Version][0].
>
> And now, for the main course…
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

Greetings to all who may read this. I am scholar Flavius Lupus of the Synod,
expert on the origins and mythologies of the many races who inhabit our world.
It is one of the other, disconnected kingdoms of which I mean to speak, however.
Those of you who have studied the plagues that have stricken our great Empire,
such as the Knahaten Flu, will probably be familiar with the Thrassian Plague,
the devastating disease that led to the eventual destruction of the Coral
Kingdom of Thras, home of the Sload, by the All Flags Navy. I was granted
special audience with a member of the Psijic Order recently who told me the
story of the Sload creation myth, the “K’Grua” as they call it. It takes places
during the Ehlnofex Wars, before the Men and Mer as we know them today came to
be. It goes like this:

----

During a battle between the Ehlnofex armies, the Champion Trinimac paused from
his rampage as he felt a strange and powerful magic being woven throughout his
forces. He looked over the battlefield, and his eyes fell upon a Necromancer,
N’Gyre, as he called himself, and he watched briefly as N’Gyre began to raise up
the broken bodies of his comrades.

At this “most foul of injustices”, Trinimac flew into a rage, approaching the
Necromancer saying, “Look at this, what atrocities you have committed! All this
evil done with impunity, and a clear conscience on your part! You should bear
the shame of a thousand betraying soldiers, for you fight not only through the
use of others’ power, but with the power of your own comrades!”

Hearing the rebuke, N’Gyre said, offended, “Trinimac, you may be the Champion
God of Lord Auri-El, but when you have passed your usefulness and begin to
wither, there shall I stand, ready to rekindle the flame of your passion, but
with my own choice fuel, that I may be your mind and body’s master, and you will
serve me on bended knee.” Trinimac, growing ever more angered, pleaded with
Auri-El for the permission to slay N’Gyre, but it was not yet allowed. Trinimac
first attempted to slay the Necromancer with brute force, charging from behind
him and, with a great swing of his blade, chopping through N’Gyre’s body. The
body exploded into ash, and behind Trinimac stood N’Gyre, grinning with content.
With the most sly of looks coming over his face, N’Gyre said, “Oh, Trinimac, you
hypocrite.” Growing more angry than clever now, N’Gyre continued, “What was that
you said about me being a traitor? You should listen to your master before you
act too rashly.” Trinimac bellowed, “How dare you, you worm! I will take
pleasure in burying by blade in your corpse!”

Yet again, Trinimac went and plead with his master, Auri-El, but again was not
given permission to kill N’Gyre. He tried his same tactic again, but with some
underlying cunning, having a powerful mage cast a decoy spell similar to
N’Gyre’s while Trinimac crept up behind the Necromancer. But N’Gyre, wise in the
ways of life magics, disregarded the intangible decoy and evaded Trinimac’s
attack yet again. Clearly upset by this repeated treachery, N’Gyre turned and
approached Trinimac, saying, “You, Trinimac are a fool. You misunderstand the
beauty of my work, the way in which I venerate the bodies of my comrades by
giving them the power and strength to fight again. You call it foul and
wretched, but yet you sneak up on me and try to trick me, so that you can betray
me, your comrade? What honor or pride is in that?”

Trinimac, outraged at the way in which N’Gyre tried to justify himself and his
actions, yet again pleaded with Auri-El, saying, “Master, he has corrupted the
souls and bodies of our most brave forces, yet he claims to be venerating them,
restoring them, and he insults me, as well!” Auri-El, looking on Trinimac
annoyedly, said, “Trinimac, my Strong-Arm, do as you see fit to the necromancer
N’Gyre, if only so that your pestering will be ceased. Truly, he is powerful,
and he serves our forces well, but you are surely not the only one who thinks
likewise of his actions. It pains me that we will lose such a powerful mage, but
it must be so.” At his word, Trinimac went, with his blade held firmly, to bring
the cold grip of death to the necromancer at last.

Swift and clever as N’Gyre was, Trinimac, this time, had outwitted him. Trinimac
had all of his anger and ferocity in his attack, and his brute strength finally
took the mage by surprise. Trinimac, with a final, powerful swing of his blade,
brought what he called “justice” to N’Gyre, and cut him into pieces, which he
proceeded to cast into the Western Sea. The Necromancer’s undead warriors
dissolved into ash, and a strange purple emission rose up from each of the ash
piles, spiraling into the air until finally descending into the ocean, seeking
to return home. Trinimac, satisfied with his revenge, withdrew from the place,
going to prepare for another battle.

After Trinimac had departed, the foam from the sea and the sludge from N’Gyre’s
corpse mingled, and from this coagulation of mixtures, a proud, clever race was
born, the Sload. The pieces of N’Gyre that were too small to sink became the
islands of the Coral Kingdom of Thras, and the energy of N’Gyre and his final
spell lingered on, infusing necromantic power in each of us from birth.

----

The Psijic monk continued with his own information, which was as follows: “They
worship only N’Gyre, but are known to make pacts and deals with Daedra Princes
and other supernatural beings, like Namira, Mistress of the Grotesque, Peryite,
the Father of Disease, and the K’Gar Nam’k, the Masters of Souls, always with
the intent of furthering their own potential as a means to an end, an end which
is a well kept secret among them and their leaders. I do not know of this
secret, but perhaps another does.”

I tell you this, fellow scholars, as it was told to Erondil of Firsthold,
PSJJJJ, who told it to me, Flavius Lupus, Scholar of the Synod and Mythological
Expert.

May your studies progress ever onward,

Flavius Lupus, Synod Researcher

> *“May your blades be sharp, and your minds sharper.”*

[0]: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/106hb1/imperial_report_on_the_origin_of_the_sload/
