---
title: RASHA GIVER WORDS BIG
reddit: 18oouk
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-02-17T09:02:38Z
---

Khajiit knows things many do not. Khajiit has seen more than most. Rasha has
learned Tamrielic to tell you these things, but may not write them for
understand.

Rasha has heard great Alkosh roar. It is louder than what any could imagine, but
it gives Khajiit strength and speed and spirit. It was so many moons ago Rasha
could not even tell you the date this happened, but Alkosh roared out to Khajiit
for Alkosh knew Khajiit were faithful. It took Khajiit only 3 days to reach
where Alkosh had guided us, we ran so fast those days without even a grain of
moon sugar in rest. Alkosh had told Khajiit to travel far out of Elsweyr and
towards the red mountain where we would meet the mighty warriors from cold
sands.

Rasha was so shocked when he came to the red mountain base and met the Nords.
Alkosh had roared us towards red mountain and Rasha sees Lorkhaj of all things!
Why would Alkosh work with Lorkhaj? It was troublesome but Rasha understood that
even they must join to stop the foolish golden devils.

Rasha was worried again for what he would have to do. Rasha is but Suthay and
these Nords were big, so Rasha stayed with his friend, Zira, and Rasha found
comfort in his presence. Perhaps the most interesting was the Nord Ra’Wulfarth,
whom tried to shout like Alkosh had roared. He was nothing against Alkosh, but
he proved his strength and Khajiit respected it.

That battle was gruesome, but Khajiit fought on. It was most wise, what
Ra’Wulfarth planned, as most big Nords with Khajiit fought the main forces of
golden devils bot above ground and in the deep but the Ra’Wulfarth, some of his
men and the Rhojiit rode up the Red Mountain to strike at the most powerful of
devils.

This is where Rasha was lucky, he hid with his friend Zira who was part of the
Rhojiit and did not have to face the devils head on. But when Ra’Wulfarth rode
Zira with the other larger Rhojiit, Rasha had to climb by himself. It was a long
and hard climb, but Rasha found it easier than the stranded Nords who wanted to
follow Ra’Wulfarth. When Rasha finally reached the top, he saw the devils
numbered 6 and Ra’Wulfarth fighting some of them. It was most interesting, Rasha
looked upon one in the robes and recognized him as Mage; Khajiit believes he
heard him referred to as “S’tha”. Rasha respects S’tha for that devil was
powerful with magic yet did not use it against Khajiit, it was duty that brought
both of us there.

Dumalacath had taken a sword to Ra’Wulfarth’s neck when it had appeared to end,
until Zira pounced atop Dumalacath and ripped at his golden armour. The
devil-Orc was lucky, had it been a lighter armour he would surely be dead. But
as the Ra’Wulfarth had fought on he had been knocked aback and down the mountain
peak by the devil “Nerevar” and Zira blasted back from the devil “Vek” who had
powerful magic. Rasha went to join Zira as we knew that we must flee and had
done so. As we continued down the ash Zira told many other Rhojiit to join
Ra’Wulfarth at the peak, many did so. A most strange thing happened after that,
as Zira and Rasha looked upon Ra’Wulfrth in the distance he had shouted to Jone
and Jode themselves and moved them! What happened next Rasha will never forget.

Each and every Rhojiit who was not Senche had transformed into Senche and fought
in a frenzy above the Red Mountain, some even taking claw to Ra’Wulfarth. As
Rasha walked down with Zira, applying healing magic to his wounds, we both
looked at Ra’Wulfarth who had been blasted into ash and blown down to the west.
The insane Rhojiit had followed the ashes into the land where they were placed
by wind, the Nordic home Skyrim.

2 days later on that awful island Zira and Rasha found ourselves in front of
Sheggorath. He looked at us and showed anger, for Zira had escaped the fate of
the other Rhojiit. Rasha knows Sheggorath is powerful, so to save Zira Rasha ran
up to the mad child and stole his staff. Surely a child of Fadomai would have a
staff for destruction, so knowing the silly god’s traits it had to have been a
healing staff.

It wasn’t. Khajiit used the staff on Zira and he became a chicken.

The mad child laughed and laughed, he appreciated my attempt. In his greedy
humour Sheggorath cast both Rasha and Zira into his lands. What a land. It was
as if architected to Khajiit standards but lacking proper directions like smells
and changes. Oh and the skooma. Sometimes it was nowhere to be found, other
times it was EVERYWHERE. Rasha snuck past Sheggorath once and found he wore
clothes of Skooma even.

Zira was most lucky though. Lorkhaj had entered the mad lands and taken Zira
back for his bravery, but not Rasha. Lorkhaj looked much like Ra’Wulfarth this
time though, but perhaps it was the mad lands which changed our view of him. It
had been so troublesome, the thought of staying there forever, but Alkosh had
come not long after and brought Rasha back right where Zira was in Elsweyr. This
is where Rasha learned it is most important to forgive, for even though Lorkhaj
had acted so terribly to his brothers and sisters, he still aided Khajiit and
worked with Alkosh.

Rasha has not aged since that day. Rasha does not know why, Zira has been long
dead.

Rimmen made things worse for Rasha. Rasha never goes to Rimmen anymore. The town
is fine, but nothing good comes from going there. Do you men or mer know what
happened? Perhaps not, the Empire liked to keep many truths; do not trust that
Empire, they are thieves greater than Rajhin. Only the Empire steals truth.

Now, Rimmen. When Rasha was leaving Rimmen the sands were so pleasantly warm.
Strolling them was falling for a lie, thinking this would harbour a good day. It
did not. For a great hall was found where Khajiit had strolled. It was not of
Khajiiti design at all, looking so... Big. Did the Nords build it? Impossible,
we are too south for that. Was it the deep devils? It lacked their common
features. Perhaps even a child of Fadomai’s? But then who? Rasha cannot tell
you, nobody knows who built that place. But the Empire found interest in it. At
least, Rasha saw imperials and their uniforms there, it had to be them. Rasha
will not bore you with petty details, but Rasha discovered another powerful Mage
there.

“Su’rin” Rasha thinks. It was hard to hear. But words are not what Rasha was
amazed by. It was Big Walker.

The Empire must have stolen again, who would give up Big Walker? Before his
death, Zira spoke of the Big Walker that was meant to have taken every deep
devil away. That’s a powerful weapon to hold and Rasha has seen it with his own
eyes. It gets worse, too.

If Rasha tells you in this book “Rasha is not sick” it is a lie. No cat or man
or elf would ever be ok after what happened. After Rasha had left the great
halls, Su’rin must have woken Big Walker for there is nothing that could have
cursed the sands like that. Now the rocks and the sand glow with stinging magic.
Many have died walking through, Rasha does not understand why he still lives.
You look at Rasha, you see Suthay. You look at glow-rocks, you will see the
skulls and bones of many who tried to walk through and died. Rasha has met some
who tried to walk through, they came back as though they dragged their tongues
in fields of skooma. And the vomiting, Khajiit does not want to speak of the
vomiting.

You may ask Rasha “why give these words”? Rasha has no answer, the words are
important. Rasha knows this. Why they are important is different. Will they
teach others to stop trusting the empire? Will men and mer finally realise
Khajiit’s role on the Red Mountain? Will this warn others to never birth the Big
Walker again? We shall wait and see, Rasha won’t be getting any older.

For now, may your road lead you to warm sands, perhaps you will see Rasha. If
you do, speak of knowledge and wisdom, Rasha has lived long enough to hear all
the boring tales, it is refreshing to hear good words.

> This is what I did instead of essay writing last night. Thanks a lot guys.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
