---
title: Alkosh the Unending!
pseudonym: Audens Civello
reddit: 192aam
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-02-23T03:55:06Z
---

> In memory of Ahriq the topless; may you walk on sugar now
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

## 3E 425, Fredas 22^nd^ of Sun’s Dawn

Dear readers, I had met an odd catman today. You know those beastmen, the furry
ones not the scaly ones. Anyway, I was on my out of Leyawiin and I find this
shirtless ragamuffin calling out to everyone about how foolish *we* were. He
must have been intoxicated on skooma or one of those other filthy substances
they take. Anyway, he spurtled on about how “foolish” the Imperial beliefs were.
On my way to Kvatch now, I’m having a sip of some brandy I bought for the
travel, here’s to hoping he gets some sense smacked into him.

## Morndas, 25^th^ of Sun’s Dawn

Kvatch has a lovely view around it. Look downhill and you can see for miles, but
looking around guess who I saw again. That same guy. Although he’s become an
interesting person, I had plenty of spare time today so here is a transcription
of what he said today, right outside the chapel of Akatosh:

> Imperials! come around and Ahriq will tell you the truth of the greatest child
> of Fadomai and why this temple is praising the wrong time king.
>
> When Ahnurr and Fadomai had birthed mighty Alkosh, they gave him the gift of
> time and he has been ever since. Alkosh has been, is and always will be; do
> not let these [profanity removed] tell you any different. Alkosh knew his role
> would be most tiresome, so he had children to take some of his burdens.
>
> Alkosh first gave birth to brothers, Ahriel and Al’dun. Ahriel would take on
> Alkosh’s necessary burden of history in the beginning and Al’dun would take it
> and end it in his belly. Alkosh takes on all-time and his sons take some time.
> This is why he is strong and forever, for he knows how to be forever unlike
> Ahriel. You imperials sure had your way with him.
>
> Now, Ahriel has been killed and brought back as this monstrosity! [points
> towards Akatosh on the glass panel]. He is so weak now, but a necessary weak,
> for you made him take on the inbetween where Ahriel rested and Al’dun awoke.
> But now look at him! He has been broken so easily and horribly. First you
> dance on Ahriel’s corpse and remake him, then the devils of the east break him
> and even your sacred emperor-god used the Brass-breaker! You let great Alkosh
> rest and then force him back into working when you hurt his sons!
>
> Stop letting these liars tell you to praise the undead Ahriel without
> recognising his mighty father! god of all-time! You say your Talos is
> many-headed, but he is a liar, thief and scum! Now that we talk of Talos, know
> the emperor had no connection to the *thing* you created. He, like those
> before him, had been blessed by mighty Alkosh. You think *that* \[points at
> Akatosh again\] could bless such men? Fools! Talos is a union of Alkosh
> blessed and but one form of Lorkhaj the betrayer.
>
> Ahriq tells you now the truth, do not put your faith in this weak lizard, he
> is but the deformed son of Alkosh the unending! Walk on wiser, Imperials. Your
> Empire will not be the forever if it does not put its faith in the god of
> forever, that is why the two before this one failed and why this one will fail
> too. Do not think the dragon is an eternal form, he will return to himself
> when brother Al’dun saves him.

Some pretty big claims for a small cat, but he’s saying some interesting things.
Who’s this “Al’dun”? All I can think of is the Nordic Alduin, but that’s just
another name for Akatosh. Interesting fellow, clearly not so intoxicated as I
had imagined before, but I don’t think he’s exactly all there.

> Ahriq was a Khajiit refugee, wanted in Elsweyr for assault, several counts of
> indecent exposure and “foolish teachings”. I never understood that last part
> if this is what the cats believe. He became a good friend in the short time I
> knew him. He was killed 2 weeks after his speech on the chapel of Akatosh.
> Most oddly, he was cut many times, but not with a sword or axe wound like I’ve
> seen before. Regardless, this is all that’s left of Ahriq now.
>
> —Audens Civello
> {:tag="cite"}
{:.afterword}
