---
title: Altmeris Language Construction
reddit: 193m32
author: myrrlyn
date: 2013-02-23T22:08:39Z
---

> Following far behind in the footsteps of /u/lu_ming, the racial subreddits
> have  begun working on construction lore-friendly (we hope) languages for
> Altmeris and Orsimeris. I have done a fair amount of work in the IRC with
> /u/Sampsonite20, and I would like to share what I have created so far. I have
> written a post on /r/Altmer with more detail that I will be fleshing out as I
> go, but I want to get your opinions.
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

----

## Altmeris Language

I am basing this off of words we see in-universe and what just *feels* High
Elven to me. It’s not an exact science, but neither is language, so I guess that
works.

W and Y make more frequent appearances than they do in English/Tamrielic, and
vowels are very common. Hard consonants appear rarely, and as a result K, B, P,
Z, and DJ are almost never found. Rather, Altmeris prefers flowing consonants
and word structure. M, N, S, T, R, L, V, and H do not impede speech flow and are
the most common consonants. Consonantal combinations are also extremely rare,
although H can be attached to consonants to shape them (HN, RH, etc).

An example word I created would be *Ahieryae*, which I created as a name. It is
pronounced Ah-ear-yah-ee, or Ah-hear-yay in the vulgar.

## Linguistic Structure

Languages follow their speakers. Altmer are very organized, thoughtful, and
structured, and at the same time multi-faceted, artistic, and highly symbolized.
This is reflected in the structure of their language and vocabulary. Words have
many meanings, not all of which are synonymous, and require context to determine
with precision what they are, but their sentences are arrayed consistently and
clearly.

Word order for clauses follows these patterns:

- independent clause-first dependent-second dependent-nth dependent
- accusative-dative-VERB-genitive-nominative.
- nominative-vocative
- modified-modifier
- ablative-phrase

In cases where multiple modifiers affect both a modified word AND each other, a
`~` is used to conjoin them, and the proper suffixes are affixed only to the
last word. Earlier words overflow onto later words in a `~` chain, but later do
not necessarily define earlier.

With the influx of Cyrodiilic languages, primarily the `,` punctuator, dependent
clauses have become allowed to be placed in the primary clause, rather than
attached at the end. In artistic script, the main clause remains unbroken and
the dependents are attached at the word which they modify. With enough of these,
flowery language ceases to be merely a metaphor.

## Formality, Intensity, and Elevation

Altmeris is a first-child of the EHLNOFEX language, and as such retains several
significant aspects of it. Although EHLNOFEX has much harsher phonetic elements
(CHIM keem) that do not translate into Altmeris, much of it is retained in the
High Elevation. This is seen in that High Elevation words are typically written
in full capitalization, and are shorter words and have more vague or wandering
meanings.

- AI: to be. AI encompasses all forms of the state of being. It is used for High
  formality, such as sword names, coronations, and such. Although it’s High
  status means it should not be used in everyday conversation, I will use it as
  such to demonstrate. *AI MYRRLYNE* means I AM myrrlyn (the -e is vocative).
  *AI /R/TESLORE* means YOU ALL ARE /r/TESlore. *AI XENOPOSEIDON* is HE IS
  xenoposeidon. *AI /R/SHITTYTESLORE* is THEY AND SOME OF WE ARE
  /r/shittyteslore. I assume you see my meaning. It isn’t just an identifier or
  a statement of being. It is related to the EHLNOFEX *AE*, a statement of
  absolute IS.

- AH-: AH- is the root of LOVE. It has many suffixes to relate to the many forms
  of LOVE. AHN is PASSION, AHR is LUST, AHL is BETRAYAL, for one may only betray
  those they love, and AHM is DEDICATION. The suffix -ë, the antonymic, may also
  be attached. AHNË is PASSIONATE HATRED. AHRË is DISGUST. AHMË is FIERCE
  OPPOSITION. Again, the Tamrielic “translation” is written in full
  capitalization to indicate that these are concepts, and far broader than our
  words can capture.

Altmeris also recognizes, and uses primarily, the low elevation. Notice that
this is written with no capitalization. Capitalization is occasionally used in
Altmeris to indicate proper status (names) or the beginning of a sentence, for
the Beginning is always important.

Low elevation words are longer, more defined, and have mildly different
phonetics than High Elevation. I have only created a few words, and have taken a
few from the known body of language as well.

## Word Formation

Altmeris follows the Latin method of prefixing and suffixing roots to change
their form, and is both more complicated and simple than Latin’s.

Personal pronouns: the simplest way to write them is (m,t,s)u(i,o)(e,o,n,s,l,e).
In order, the sets are: person (1,2,3), U for phonetics, plurality (S,P), and
case (nom,gen,dat,acc,abl,voc). Thus, the first person singular nominative
pronoun (what I would use when speaking at you), is *muie*. You all, the
recipients, would be *tuon* or *tuos*, depending on my verb and structure
choice.

## Vocabulary

In no particular order, these are words I have created or used.

- *amufi-*: Love (v). Notice that this is polysyllabic and sounds different from
  the High Elevation AH-, even though they are both related to love. AHN, LOVE,
  is a High Concept, and ideal in its form. *amufi-* is low, and mundane. It
  refers both to the emotion and to the action of love.

- *uliy-*: In Altmeris, being thankful and grateful is a transitive verb, rather
  than the states of being that it is in Tamrielic. This makes it difficult to
  translate directly.

- *amnuis-*: This is an adjective, meaning several things. Swift, graceful,
  close, beautiful (not a measure of physical attractiveness), elegant, flowing.

- *moeya*: This is an exception verb, and showcases the Altmeris blur between
  being and doing. It means both I am and I do, and sort of I send/throw/pass.

- *alt-*: Most commonly taken to mean high, in either physical distance or
  philosophical state. It also means true (not Boolean), far, right (not as in
  right hand), and some more. The -ë suffix makes it deep, close, fatal,
  sundering, and such.

- *Orsi-*: As you well know, this means pariah, exile, outcast, ostracized,
  alien-in-his-own-kind.

- *-mer*: This can be both a suffix or a standalone word, meaning family, clan,
  close-knit-group, gathering, band, kind, kin, those-in-common.

- *elweny-*: The Y is not a vowel. Vowel suffixes are appended to the root. The
  root is pronounced el-when and with a suffix -ae, el-when-yah-ee.

## Pronunciation

Diphthongs are typically pronounced as individual letters, though they can be
slur-blended. Vowels are long or short as befits. E can be read as eh and ay
both, for example. Where consonants have multiple forms, the softer is chosen.
The only real rule of the language is that it must flow easily and articulately
when spoken.

----

I will certainly be adding to this as time goes on, and I’d love to hear your
thoughts on what we’ve done so far and where we take this in the future.

[Here][0] is another lexicon on /r/Altmer.

[0]: https://old.reddit.com/r/altmer/comments/1933xn/altmeris_language/
