---
title: On Nedes and Nords
reddit: 194uhp
author: lebiro
date: 2013-02-24T15:19:13Z
---

Okay people, this is just a very brief “PSA” kind of post on an issue which
seems to come up quite often and cause some confusion – Nedes, Nords, Bretons
and Imperials. Who were they and where did they come from?

Contrary to popular belief (both in Tamriel and in the real world), the Nedes
did not come from Atmora, and were not Nords or proto-Nords. To quote eminent
scholar of history Hasphat Antabolis (the in-character forum account of
developer Kurt Kuhlmann):

> The usual Imperial arrogance. The hoary old “Out of Atmora” theory has been
> widely discredited (no reputable archaeologist would publicly support it these
> days), but the Imperial Geographers continue to beat the drum of the Nordic
> Fatherland in the best tradition of the Septim Empire. They seem to think that
> the imprimature of officialdom gives their outdated scholarship added weight –
> which, unfortunately, it appears to in the eyes of the ever-gullible public
> which continues to snap up the latest Pocket Guides along with the rest of
> their Imperial Certified pablum.

There is a very distinct difference. I think the easiest way to explain it is to
explain the origins of each of these confusing races.

## The Nords

The Nords come from Atmora, the cold, frozen continent to the north of Tamriel.
In the Merethic Era, the “proto-Nords” (ancestors of the modern Nords, following
the Dragon Cult), like Ysgramor and his Five Hundred or Thereabouts Companions,
sailed from Atmora to Tamriel, where they landed in Skyrim, which they called
Mereth (land of the elves).

They did not know that they were not the first men on Tamriel, and neither,
apparently, does the Imperial Geographical Society. According to an old text
referenced in the [1st Edition PGE][0], they first encountered Nedic people (specifically early Bretons) in High Rock. They mistook them for elves and set
about killing them until one spoke to them in Nordic.

## The Nedes

The Nedes were Tamrielic aboriginal humans, or one tribe of aboriginal humans.
They were *always* there, not brought from Atmora. The Nedes were enslaved by
the Ayleids in Cyrodiil, and by the Direnni clan in High Rock (where they
interbred with the elves to become early Bretons). [The Adabal-A][1] lists the
Nedes as but one tribe of men, alongside the Kothri, the Keptu, the Men-of-Ge,
the Men-of-‘Kreath, and several others.

Nedes already lived in Cyrodiil and Direnni High Rock when Ysgramor and co.
landed in Skyrim.

It is my view, due to the way the term is used, that “Nedes” or “Nedic people”,
despite really referring to a specific tribe of aboriginal proto-Cyrodiils, is
used as an umbrella term for all of these aboriginal races, so the Keptu and
Al-Gemha, while not actually of the Nede race/tribe, were “Nedic people”.

## The Bretons

The 1st Edition PGE claims Bretons were the descendants of Nord slaves captured
at Saarthal, but as Antabolis writes, the PGE is not to be trusted. In any case,
the [3rd Edition PGE][2] perhaps corrects this, stating that “the Aldmer coming
from Summerset Isle were the first to settle and form permanent communities.
The early Nedic people who arrived next were stumbling upon a highly
sophisticated culture, and were quickly overwhelmed and absorbed”. Of course,
the IGS was probably still of the opinion that “Nedic people” were Nords, but
who knows.

In any case, yes, Nedes (or “Nedic people”) came to High Rock, where the Direnni
were well-established as a culture, and were absorbed into what became known as
the Direnni hegemony. It was these post-absorption “Manmeri” that the confused
Nords encountered in the Reach.

Nowadays, “Breton” is a loose term that describes all the people of High Rock,
who despite remarkable cultural similarity (With the exception of the Reachmen),
are fractious and sectarian. But back on topic…

## The Imperials

This is where it is a little more confusing, perhaps because of the central
(geographically and politically) location of the Imperials, and their role in
shaping scholarship (for instance the bias of the IGS). The Imperials are the
descendants of the aboriginal tribes who were enslaved by the Ayleids. These
“proto-Cyrodiils” were likewise already in Tamriel when Ysgramor arrived,
toiling under the Ayleids.

Alessia (/Perrif/Al-Esh/etc.), the Slave Queen, led a revolt of these
proto-Cyrodiils against their elven masters. In this endeavour, they had
considerable assistance from their new northern neighbours, the Nords (who hated
elves due to the Night of Tears and the associated conflicts). Morihaus, the
Bull of Kyne, and Alessia’s consort, came from Skyrim. When the Ayleids were
overthrown (circa 1E243), the Nords and proto-Cyrodiils found that they had
essentially inherited the continent, and went on to found the First Empire (not
to be confused with the slightly earlier “First Empire” of the Nords, referring
to their conquests in High Rock and Morrowind). This led to some interbreeding,
and a lot of cultural transfer, so the proto-Cyrodiils (now “Imperials”, I
suppose) had a lot of Nord culture and blood.

The modern day Imperials are divided into two broad groups, the eastern
Nibeneans, and the western Colovians. Exactly when and how they became distinct
is uncertain. It is interesting to note that in the Adabal-A, the Ayleids are
said to have ” herded in men from across all the Niben”, so perhaps not the
early Colovians. The Ayleids definitely ruled Colovia, however; it is just as
littered with their ruins as Nibenay.

## The Redguards

The Redguards are probably feeling pretty left out, but that’s because their
relationship to Tamriel’s other men is the simplest. Basically they don’t have
one, that’s why they look so different and have such a different culture. The Ra
Gada came from Yokuda, a continent to the West of Tamriel. It was destroyed in a
cataclysm of debated origin, and in 1E 808, they came to Tamriel in a deadly
invasion, brutally conquering what is now Hammerfell. Over time, their need to
trade and communicate meant that they effectively lost their native language of
Yoku, and picked up many cultural traits from the neighbouring Nedic people.

## The Starry Heart of Dawn’s Beauty

There is one more thing to bear in mind when tracing human ancestry in Tamriel.
The [Nu-Mantia Intercept][3] puts forward the theory that “All mortal life
started on the starry heart of Dawn’s beauty, Tamriel”.

Now as far as I’m aware, this theory (which most lore scholars hold to be true)
does not invalidate what I just spent half an hour typing out. But it does mean,
that before *any* of that, everyone started out in Tamriel, and divided in the
earliest days of history.

## Conclusion

So that’s that. I hope this helps, and that I haven’t made any horrible errors
(please point any out).

Oh shoot, I forgot the Akaviri!

[0]: https://imperial-library.info/content/pocket-guide-empire-first-edition-high-rock
[1]: https://imperial-library.info/content/adabal
[2]: https://imperial-library.info/content/pocket-guide-empire-third-edition-sons-and-daughter-direnni-west-high-rock
[3]: https://imperial-library.info/content/nu-mantia-intercept
