---
title: Rieklings
subtitle: A Tiny Civilization, Unmasked
reddit: 198q3r
author: Lorfiend
date: 2013-02-26T04:58:36Z
---

Rieklings, the tiny, blue goblin-like beings that inhabit the island of
Solstheim are grievously misunderstood and ignored for being “Stupid” or “a
nuisance”. I, Crassus Lanius, (author of “The Thousand-and-One uses for Horkers:
A Primer”) set out to investigate these mysterious beings on their home island.
What follows are my findings.

## Architecture

Rieklings have a simplistic architecture, consisting of rounded huts and tents.
These structures are primarily made from the bones and hides of animals that
they’ve raised or hunted. This includes (but is not limited to) Boars, Foxes,
Deer, Skeevers, and more. The huts, generally rounded with an entrance
protruding from one side have loose fitting roofs and are only attached to the
ground with bone or wood stakes, giving the impression that they can be easily
disassembled and moved, should the need arise. Which would insinuate a mostly
nomadic culture, however other habits of Riekling society tell otherwise.

## Religion

Riekling religion is a complicated thing and not much is known to us, what we do
know however, is the Riekling have a “godspeak song” that they preform ritually.
The godspeak song involves burning considerable amounts of Scathecraw, native to
Morrowind and Solstheim. Scathecraw is dreadfully toxic, so much of the ritual,
including how the Rieklings survive it, remains a mystery to us. Popular theory
has it that the Rieklings are simply immune to the airborne variants of the
Scathecraw toxins, while another theory argues that part of the Riekling
godspeak ritual involves a potion which keeps them safe from the toxin.
Regardless, more study is required.

Rieklings have no known religious figures, such as the shamans, priests,
witches, or medicine men that can be found in other savage cultures like Orcs,
and Goblins. When Rieklings wish to preform the godspeak ritual, they simply
gather round a fire, burn the Scathecraw and chant in unison, there is no
leader.

Who the Rieklings speak to and worship in the godspeak ritual is another topic
of much debate, there are two likely contenders for who the Rieklings worship,
the first being Hircine, Daedric god of the Hunt, given his history on Solstheim
and the Rieklings’ hunter-gatherer culture. The other choice would be the
All-Maker of the Skaal religion, seeing as the two share an island heavily
influenced with shrines of this “All-Maker” and the Rieklings have a habit of
adopting the cultures and items of those they live close to (see culture).
Another theory has presented itself that Rieklings may worship the Orcish
Daedra-God, Malaclath. I find these theories to be highly preposterous, as
Rieklings live so isolated from his other followers, and so deep in the
influence of many other gods and Daedra.

## Culture

Rieklings live in tribal villages or groups of 10-50 Rieklings, each filling a
specific role in society (Warrior, Hunter, Worker, Boar Breeder) and one leading
Chief of the tribe. The chief chooses the days on which godspeak rituals will
occur, and leads the Rieklings in whatever endeavors they may be preforming (a
hunt, a raid, construction). Rieklings are highly social creatures, who
communicate often and quite loudly in their guttural language consisting of
clicks of grunts. There are recorded instances of intelligent Rieklings using
Tamrielic to communicate with travelers and locals who encounter them.

Riekling leaders are chosen in a way that can be called similar to the way that
Orcs choose their chieftains. If and when a Riekling wants to become chieftain,
he challenges the current chief to single combat, and, if victorious, becomes
the new chief, this way only the strongest rule. There have been extreme and
highly unusual and rare scenarios where a non-Riekling can become a chieftain of
a Riekling tribe, recorded incidents of this are often ridiculously
overexagerrated, but truth can still be found in some.

Rieklings raise and domesticate Bristleback Boar, which are native to the island
of Solstheim. These boar are used in everything from warfare, acting as riding
beasts for Riekling warriors, to agriculture, where they are used for meat, to
architecture and clothing, where they are used in Riekling huts and armors.

Riekling clothes and armors are primarily made of bones and furs from the
creatures they raise and hunt, most notably Bristleback Boars. However it isn’t
unusual to see a Riekling wearing a Skeever skull or a feathered headdress.
Rieklings have also been known to fashion leather armors, but not regularly
enough to be considered commonplace, as the practice of creating such armor has
fallen out of, well practice, sometime after the late Third Era. Despite the
cold climate of Riekling dwellings in northern Solstheim, Rieklings often only
cover about half their bodies in furs and bones, leaving much of their chest,
stomach, and arms exposed.

Rieklings have a very simple, yet effective weapon. Tried-and-true, the Riekling
spear is a versatile projectile or hand-to-hand weapon fashioned from a
sharpened rock attached to a sturdy and straight stick. This weapon proves
equally effective being thrown from range, jabbed from up close, or used like a
lance while mounted on a Bristleback Boar. Rieklings have also been known to use
arrows fashioned by more intelligent races as spears, much to the same effect.

Most notably in Riekling society, is their apparent kleptomania. Rieklings will
randomly hoard objects made by others in large amounts in their tribes,
sometimes building bizarre shrines from the items they prospected. Rieklings of
late have been known to steal ancient weapons and tools from nord crypts,
random, generally useless items from the newer Dunmer settlements on Solstheim,
tools and animal skins from the northern Skaal, and even scraps of metal from
Dwemer ruins. The purpose of this hoarding is as of yet unknown, yet the use of
these stolen items in shrines insinuates a religious connotation.

## Biology

Reikling Biology is indeed fascinating, but without the ability to properly sit
down and dissect a Riekling myself, there is much I don’t know, and other
scholars don’t care to know. However, a lot can be inferred from just observing
Rieklings from a bush outside one of their camps.

The heart of a Riekling is a powerful thing, working very hard to keep a
Riekling warm in the frigid climate of northern Solstheim. It beats much more
quickly than the heart of a man or mer, resulting in a very short lifespan for a
Riekling. The amount of energy the heart produces results in a great need for
energy input. The average Riekling eats as much as a man would in day, despite
their small size.

Most interestingly is the sickening crunching noise a Riekling makes between
minutes and hours after dying. This writer’s best guess is that it has something
to do with the cold of the snow, ice, outdoors, or a combination of the three
flash-freezing the Riekling’s previously hot bones (no doubt so hot from the
Rieklings hot blood, being pumped from their immensely powerful hearts). Now, if
you’ve ever dropped a scorching hot rock into water, you’ve no doubt seen as the
rock cracks and sometimes even explodes. I believe that Riekling bones may
behave somewhat in the same way; when a Riekling dies, their bones chill very
quickly and crack, shatter, or break, creating the noise.

----

I hope that this was both an enlightening view into the uniqueness of Rieklings,
and an excellent (if I do say so myself) dissertation on the lives and culture
of these remarkable little creatures. I would however like to remind you all
that Rieklings are dangerous and unpredictable, so if you should see one,
approach with caution, or run away.

Yours Unequivocally,

*Crassus Lanius*
