---
title: The Withering
reddit: 19fr2u
author: xenoposeidon
date: 2013-03-01T02:21:21Z
---

It was once strong.

Long ago, it, or shall I say they, stood tall and enormous, casting great
shadows over the southern landscape. *It* ruled over the land, and joined with
it as one. The land itself was forest, from the darkened wet forest in the
southeast, to the high forest hills with great tall trees in the northwest. From
where the forest was dense and full of critters, to the almost lifeless forest
that had its trees climb the steep rise of a great volcano. The land was a
forest, and the forest was *it*.

It saw nothing, for there was nothing to see. *It* could feel shadows of
critters dancing under its many leaves, circling around its many trunks. Some
shadows were small, rare, so lonely and insignificant when compared to the
enormous unity that was *It*. Some others were taller, numerous, and did not
dance around the same way the other shadows did. Yet, while studying the
shadows’ pattern of dancing carefully, *it* did not alter itself, nor did it
care to act or interfere with the shadow’s dancing in any way.

And then, one day, the shadows began dancing much differently. They came
together, joined each other close in their dancing. More shadows came, arriving
from the West and the North. The many shadows greeted each other, furiously
dancing closer and closer, until in a split second the shadows started devouring
each other. Two shadows came together, danced, and one remained. Over and over
the shadows devoured each other, each time more ferociously. *It* could see the
shadows growing stronger, fiercer, altering rocks and metals and the bodily
tissues of other shadows to grow their dancing stronger and more brutal. *It*
has never felt such ferocity in the dancing of the shadows, never such heat and
wrath in the shadows’ footsteps upon the soil above *It*’s roots.

And then the shadows turned to *It* for power. They cut down the trunks of *It*
to make fortified structures, tools, and weapons. Then the shadows extracted the
sap from within the trees, drinking it to grow themselves healthier and
stronger, hardening it to cover themselves with outfits out of *It*’s own blood.
*It* could not respond. Never has anything so terrible and awe inspiring
happened to the forest. *It* could not dance like the shadows, it could not see
or speak or hear or touch like the shadows. To think and to feel were *it*s only
available actions, but neither could slow down the shadows’ rampaging dances. So
*It* stood, and it felt, and it withered.

First the trees in the north were gone, then east and west, then in the center
of the forest. The forest withered and withered until only the trees in the
south were left; many, in the lands where the forest is dark and wet, less in
the other side of the southern water, where the land was drier and warmer.
There, *it* stood, and many of its trees. Yet the shadows were soon to come.
They cut, and chopped, and slew in the dry land until the entire land was no
more a forest. Only one hill remained, and there *it* stood, with but a single
tree atop the hill. *It* knew the shadows were coming, hungry, yet *it* knew the
single tree could not be helped. No alteration, no sympathy, no feeling or
thought could help it.

So the alterations stopped, slowly, and the sympathies withdrew, and the
thoughts and feelings grew weaker and more silent. Minute by minute, hour by
hour, the tree felt weaker, more withered, more exiled.

And then *it* was alone. *It* could not feel its wet roots in the southeastern
soil, could not feel the tiny shadows there dancing merrily and safely round
*it*s trunk. *It* was lonely, afraid, withering, shriveling. *It* could not
sustain so many leaves and such a tall trunk, so it altered itself smaller,
smaller. *It* shed its bark, dried its sap, withdrew its leaves.

When the shadow came *it* was a white, shriveling tree, 5 feet high. *It* felt
the shadow come closer, run its hand on *it*s tiny shriveled branches, *It* was
ready to die. *It* dried its sap to a deadly solid, shed its leaves completely,
making it so the death would be easy and without pain.

The shadow picked up its metallic tool. And then the shadow left.

So there stood the Hist, withered, cold and dying, in the heat of the once
beautiful wasteland.

It remembered nothing, did nothing, felt nothing. And then, under the scorching
sun, it withered away, and became *nothing*.
