---
series: A Pocket Guide to the Ages
part: 1
title: A Pocket Guide to the Ages, Part I
reddit: 1be4e3
author: desquire
date: 2013-04-01T01:21:03Z
hide_series: true
---

Greetings, traveler. I’m fairly confident in positing that, as you’ve exhibited
the ingenuity to discover this document, you too are one unfettered by such
trivial things as the grasp of Aka or the cage of convention. So, presented in
these pages is a simple guide through the ages; so you may explore with
foreknowledge of what to expect and how to dress accordingly.

All that lay before the annals of time started with a whisper. No, that’s not
correct, not a whisper; but the thought of a whisper. No, that’s not right
either. The preconceived concept that thinking of a whisper may be an option.
And with the idea of the possibility of a word uttered under still breath; Anu
and Padomay came along. No more siblings than they were enemies; more verbs than
nouns; both all and nothing; one pushing and one pulling before such actions
were even tangible. And forth from the two undefinable, the rest fell into
place. First, as the void persisted, conflict between the primordial forces went
on unknown and unrecorded. All events happened simultaneously and not at all.

Anu and Padomay looked upon what was transpiring between each other and with
that, looked back upon their own antithesis. Anu was moved by his own
reflection, thus in breaking his immobility, Anui-El came to be. Padomay, struck
silent by the shock of introspection, paused a moment; and thus Sithis was also
born. With both these children, each side of the coin was complete. With order
and adaptation in place; Aurbis, the canvas for creation, was set.

From this state, a single stream began to emerge within itself and that of Anu.
Thus, Aka was created. For, henceforth in his presence, the void would no longer
be simultaneous and rhyme-less, but instead time would reign as law. But, as you
may be already aware, laws can be bent and sometimes; broken.

With the passing of these generations of Anu also came the progeny of the
whirling chaos. From Sithis came another to bear many names; Lorkhan, of whom
would remain unnoticed until his own great contribution would be laid
forthright.

It is highly recommended to all travelers of whom would like to witness events
of the Dawn Era; consider all complications involved in a vacation spanning
before times advent. Remember, all events prior to Aka, time itself, are
nebulous and untethered, order and age indeterminable. More like the dream of a
restless mind than the passing of events. After such considerations have been
made, cancel your plans and instead use your powers of space/time to visit
Elsweyr to indulge in a bit of Skooma. While this too may be inadvisable, it
will still yield better results than your previous itinerary.

With the architecture for existence laid, so too did trickle down the lines of
realization many children, simply ideas within themselves, these thoughts
garnering their own spirit. Born to one of two houses, the children of Padomay
and Anu came to play and to build. And build they did. The Aurbis henceforth,
still young and unsculpted, would never be the same.

----

> Author’s Note: I am human. I may have gotten things wrong. Please comment any
> and all corrections and I will edit in kind. Thanks for reading!
> {:.afterword}
>
> Edits:
>
> 1. Spelling Correction: bear -> bare
> 2. “Unknown to what order and age things came to be” changed to, “order and
>    age indeterminable”.
> 3. Changed the first “nebulous” to “primordial”, since I used that word twice.
> 4. One paragraph removed for chronological accuracy, eg. the creation of Aka.
>    Thanks to /u/Shonni-Et for pointing this out.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}

[Part II →][0]{:rel="next"}

[0]: ./1bhst1
