---
title: The History of Card Games
reddit: 1f16to
author: OPGreenback
date: 2013-05-25T15:37:10Z
---

> A pamphlet about the history and gameplay of Tamriel’s card games, published
> in 4E 57.
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

Card games began in Morrowind with the ancient Dunmeri word “card”, or
“undeparted kin-wardens”, which in turn refers to — behind the slightly obtuse
language — the various forms of undead found in Dunmeri tombs: Ancestor Ghosts,
Bonewalkers, Bonelords, and so on. The Dunmeri New Temple’s officially
sanctioned explanation for the leap of language from ancestor guardians to
slips of paper employed in gambling games has to do with the original use of the
cards (here referring to the slips of paper) as tools of mysticism and
divination. The tradition amongst such diviners is to rub the ashes of one’s own
ancestors into the paper, enriching the paper with the knowledge of the
benevolent dead.

However, there is also an unofficial explanation. Said explanation is reviled
and censored by the New Temple as sacrilege and blasphemy, but it is certainly a
much more entertaining theory. According to a certain story which is somewhere
between a folktale and an urban legend, the ancestor guardians themselves
invented the game. The tale goes that a particular tomb robber (tomb theft
being a terrible crime in Morrowind, but also one from which opportunistic
adventurers and merchants were and are more than willing to profit) entered his
most recently targeted tomb to discover that the “cards”, or ancestor guardians,
were playing an odd game with slips of paper.

Presumably, guarding ancient tombs is a rather boring job, so these specific
guardians had invented a game to pass the time. The enterprising tomb robber
watched on for a short while, learning the rules of the game, before charging
out of the shadows and putting silver to the spirits, as tomb robbers do. He
retrieved the deck and spread word of the marvelous “card” game, or the game
played by “cards”. The game was a hit, swiftly spreading from the tomb robber’s
personal circles to all of Morrowind. Over time, some amongst the common folk
forgot that the ancient word “card” referred to the guardians, and assumed that
the word “card” referred not to the inventors and original players of the game,
but to the slips of paper themselves.

The Dunmeri card game developed a set standard, mired in a sticky mixture of
religious symbolism and greed. The intense Dunmeri numerology and symbolism of
the standard deck is especially interesting, what with its sixteen cards per
suit (analogous to the sixteen Daedric Princes), its inclusion of a group of
“Power Trio” cards (originally played out by the three Good Daedra, and then by
the Tribunal, and now by the Good Daedra again), its three suits (most often
accompanied with the same imagery as the “Power Trio”), its twelve minor cards
(analogous to the Four Corners of the House of Troubles confronted by the three
Good Daedra, to the Heavens that are the twelve worlds of creation, and to the
twelve New Temple Saints with the exception of the Tribunal), and so on. The use
of guar-bone dice was introduced to the game later on, borrowed from a popular
game amongst guar herders. The particulars of gameplay shall be discussed later
on.

Card games were first introduced to the Empire, and thereby to Tamriel at large,
by the Dunmeri Empress Regent Katariah. The preserved and highly treasured
letters of the Vlindrel family reveal that Katariah introduced the game to her
nobles on more than one occasion, and stubbornly labored to ensure that the game
became a popular upper class pastime. Modern historians believe that Katariah’s
propagation of her native card game was yet another of her clever diplomatic
tactics. By teaching her court to play the game, she not only established a
shared interest between herself and the nobles at large, but she gained access
to a coartload of gossip, as many wealthy and powerful figures cannot help but
gossip as they gamble.

Katariah, in her extensive diplomatic travels throughout the Empire, spread the
seed of the Dunmeri card game throughout Tamriel. Predictably, the game took
strongest root in Cyrodiil, the home of  Katariah’s court. Because the game
first had to filter through the noble classes before reaching the common folk,
the Imperial deck is arguably the most convoluted. For example, in the name of
adding their own brand of religious imagery, the nobles separated the suits into
entirely different themes; for example, the “Power Trio” of each of the three
suits is aligned to a particular set of three of the Nine Divines.

> The pamphlet goes on to describe the particular cards and rules of each
> cultural deck.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
