---
title: The Noisy Serpent Loves His War Speech
reddit: 1j3c5x
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-07-26T12:10:49Z
---

In the beginning place, before the beginning, the Doom Drum traveled to Auri-El
with malice and lies, spitting at him “Auri-El! I have learned the secret to
power and holyness! It is heaven! come with me and we shall bring our people to
greatness the others are too twisted to feel”. Lorkhan’s treachery had worked
onto Auri-El and he decided he would steward others into the “heaven”, whilst
Lorkhan had fled away from his plans of his site of imprisonment.

----

Shor had floated with Kyne and they spoke of thundering promise of an arena.
“But is Tsun not mighty enough? Do you not trust Stuhn? Why would you create
that which could harm you?” Kyne breathed. Shor, true and terrible and loud and
loving rippled through her that the blood-stained arena would shake the very
strings that tie the spirits together and then bind them stronger, that all
which followed would mirror the love they had shared. It would be a gift unto
her and the combatants, his Heart beating with passion for both. Kyne accepted
Shor’s plans and wished for such love to be spread unto others; Mara was among
the first who heeded Shor’s call from this.

----

Sep crawled from shedding skin, twisting and turning towards Morwha without her
husbands. Morwha grabbed Sep closer to hear his tale, that “the love and
partners of Morwha will multiply with each bond she gives”. Morwha grabbed tight
to Tall Papa, who she could never let go, but gave Sep one arm to grab more
husbands from Sep’s promise. Sep took the arm and wrapped it in his skin for his
other peices to form.

----

Shezzar, who is Shor-El, who is forgotten now, walked upon Zenithar whose nature
he admired. “Zen, through work and labour are fruits of reward seeded as you of
all know best. But, is that not the problem? That only you truly know this? I
present to you, Zen, a fair trade. You and Dibella and Julianos and more will
help work with me to create a place where you can save lesser souls whom work
and toil and give them reward that is deserved, less they be taken by
temptations of Vile. Let us work together and reap what we sow and then they who
toil with heart and hand will learn your calls of justice and fairness”.
Zenithar was pleased by the investment and agreed to the deal and he would work
hard and true with Shezzar for this creation.

----

And Lorkhaj had called to little S’rendarr, for his tricks would encompass any
and all who would fall for them. “S’Rendarr, sister Nirni has been given
children to bear just as mother Fadomai, but Nirni has no places to go. Lorkhaj
makes many things, but he cannot make a home that large for them. Look at
sister, she weeps for her children’s uncertain home. Is Lorkhaj and S’rendarr
not like them? Had we not narrowly avoided un-birth? It has not been long since
father Ahnurr came wrathful and frightening. We must help them, S’Rendarr; would
you allow the cubs to hunt a prey deadlier than them? Come, we make a space for
Nirni’s cubs”. S’rendarr saw his sister weeping and wept with her, that children
so young and weak may not get the chance he did. Though Mara will always be the
Mother Cat, S’rendarr will always look upon the cubs as though they were his
own.

----

And from then came pain.
