---
title: A Priest’s Old Journal
subtitle: The Burden of the Empire
reddit: 1j44q7
author: waldorfwithoutwalnut
date: 2013-07-26T19:04:12Z
---

by Castus Domini, priest of Akatosh

4E 142

Today, oh great Akatosh, I give myself to You. My prayer is as follows:

It was you, great Akatosh, who preserved all that is beautiful during our time
of need. Dibella, today I reject you, patron of nothing. Your domain is not
beauty but mere void, for it was glorious Akatosh who protected  fair lady Nirn.
Your domain is not art but mere void, for bards shall sing of the true one
Divine, saviour of the Empire.

It was you, great Akatosh, who protected the cycle of life and death during our
time of need. Arkay, today I reject you, patron of nothing. Your domain is not
death but mere void, for it was the Dragon of Cyrodiil who answered our plea
when unlawful death was at our gates. Your domain is not birth but mere void,
for it is thanks to the rightful ruler of Time that fair lady Nirn still gives
birth.

It was you, great Akatosh, who allowed merchants to prosper during our time of
need. Zenithar, today I reject you, patron of nothing. Your domain is not work
but mere void, for it is glorious Akatosh  who carries existence on his
shoulders. Your domain is not trade but mere void, for it is Akatosh who made
the ultimate exchange.

It was you, great Akatosh, who had mercy during our time of need. Stendarr,
today I reject you, patron of nothing. Your domain is not compassion but mere
void, for it was Akatosh the benevolent who guarded weak lady Nirn from harm.
Your domain is not justice but mere void, for it was the Golden Dragon who
defended us from wicked Dagon.

It was you, great Akatosh, who descended from the heavens during our time of
need. Kynareth, today I reject you, patron of nothing. Your domain is not the
sky but mere void, for it was winged Akatosh who kept the immaculate blue. Your
domain is not wind but mere void, for it is Time that breathes life into Nirn.

It was you, great Akatosh, who enforced truth during our time of need. Julianos,
today I reject you, patron of nothing. Your domain is not law but mere void, for
Akatosh is Law over Oblivion. Your domain is not  magic but mere void, for the
Avatar of the Dragon is greater than any spell or enchantment.

Like a mother you tend to the Empire. You, most virtuous mother, look after us,
and because of that we shall not fail. All of existence is in your womb, and you
eternally give birth  to all the Aurbis. Mara, today I reject you, patron of
nothing. Your domain is not love but mere void, for Akatosh loves us more than
he loves himself.

Like a father you watch over the Empire. You, most virtuous father, look after
us, and because of that we shall not fail. You carry the burden of the Empire,
you are the greatest hero of mankind. Talos, today I reject you, patron of less
than nothing.

Today, oh great Akatosh, I give myself to you.
