---
title: The First of First Mate’s Void-Navy Conscription Speech
reddit: 1ka495
author: mojonation1487
date: 2013-08-13T15:00:02Z
about: |
  Nothing earth shattering here. Been working on three different versions of
  this and this is what I settled on. A little head-canon stuff that I
  unofficially tie into the Masser Project as well as prior events. Enjoy!
---

> Form up novices. Each and every one of you has been conscripted by the Prime
> Anuielectorate because of your achievements, heritage and loyalty to the
> Dominion as well as the Thalmor.
>
> Fix your gaze towards the stars and don’t look back. Our mission, YOUR mission
> lies above. The Dominion, with you as it’s representatives, will embark to the
> Void for the first time in almost one hundred years. As some of you may
> already be aware, towards the end of the Second Era up until the Oblivion
> Crisis, we made numerous expeditions into the Void. I’m sure all of you have
> read the sanctimonious propaganda that is the Imperial Pocket Guides. We were
> not alone in our Void travels. According to last known Anullowance, we must
> assume Masser remains colonized by Imperial forces. These colonists are still
> believed to be integral to the TAL[OS] and must be removed before the biting.
> This is crucial in our efforts to reverse the beats of the Doom Drum.
>
> First, before all of you depart, you will be trained in the mythematical arts
> of the Mirror Logicians. We cannot risk a Sunbird breaking the Liminal Barrier
> and alerting our foe; instead, you will enter chrysalis shells and make an
> ASSN jump to your destination. ASSN jumps are risky indeed, but the chrysalis
> shell, while never intended for this purpose during it’s conception, should
> provide a static latticework to reinforce Phynaster’s Inversion, thus
> increasing the probability of a safe jump.
>
> Our staging ground once your training is complete will be Secunda. We will
> have to take control of the moon as it is in the hands of the Khajiit and will
> accomplish this in two stages. The first stage is mundrial and won’t concern
> you; the second will be your priority once you join our operatives in the
> Void; you will be briefed on the specifics then.
>
> When your training is finished, you will be the most mind-hardened Mer the
> Dominion will have seen in the last century. Or, you will die. Simply blink
> out of existence. Heed the words of the transcript you now see before you:

----

[Last Spore-Transmission of SMIS MothEater]

***-Attempted TransLiminal breach detected.-***

*No sign of hyperagonal reconciliation and/or retromission*

*Chrome-algorithm?*

*Unlikely*

*Y Signs appears descendant*

*C0DA inspection authorized*

***-Wound detected-***

*Interesting, no sign of temporal displacement*

*Summon the MiithSpeaker*

[SPORE-DREAM INTERRUPT]

*Prepare the MothEater; ready the Mirror*

***-Nymic accepted-***

*Proceed to S-Sigil redundancy protocol*

***-Foreign algorithm detected-***

***-Forced retromission initiated-***

***-Hyperagonal reconciliation failed-***

[ZERO-SUM INTERRUPT]

----

> This mission isn’t without risk. Any number of things could go wrong that
> could lead to the absolute erasure of your soul. Remain focused and steadfast
> in your training and you will not fail, for it is our birthright to reascend
> to the heavens, to return the Dawn to Aetherius itself!
>
> Dismissed.
