---
title: A Report to Your Highness the Emperor from Mikavel Silver-Tongue
reddit: 1kazf5
author: Ushnad_gro-Udnar
date: 2013-08-13T21:14:09Z
about: |
  I have recently started trying to get a better picture of the political and
  economic landscape of Tamriel and was inspired to do a series of posts by the
  excellent series by /u/Hollymarkie. I have just begun with it so my insight is
  limited until I begin to see the web of it all more clearly, as any of you who
  study politics will understand. So please, feel free to critique and ask
  questions as I can only improve. And with out further ado, let’s begin.
---

To Your Highness, Lord Emperor Titus Mede II,

It is with a humble hand that I sit and pen this report that I have gladly
completed at your behest. The environs of Skyrim lend themselves to extracting
information from others about their homelands but the culture leads to few of
them to speak with. I have spent many an hour in the haze induced by wine and
food and have compiled a portfolio of the political and economic kingdoms of
your grand domain and those lands that lay beyond. With that I shall begin with
the one that no doubt interests you the most: our Northern brethren of Skyrim.

Government: Rule of law is moderately well enforced within the Nine Holds though
there is still some level of corruption and stories of the guards looking the
other way for house Carls and Thanes is not unheard of. The Holds function much
less as states in a federation and more as individual and ambitious tribes in an
area with one name. It would perhaps be more accurate to give you a report on
each Hold but I understand that your Majesty’s time is precious and so I will
aim for brevity. The disconnect among the Holds seems to be mostly political as
people are fairly culturally homogenous. Political disconnect is also not
complete as cross-Hold business and enterprises are found. The Jarls rule with
near complete impunity within their Holds but submit to the authority of the
High King when it comes to trans-national issues. This leader is chosen upon the
death of the reigning King at a meeting called the Moot in which the only
democratic process in Skyrim crowns a new lord. Powerful clans often dominate
public life with the layman having little power or say in matters. This leads to
a somewhat dynastic system in which Jarl-hoods are handed down through families
and their advisors are also usually descendants of past advisors. This can
naturally lead to betrayal and assassinations and the Jarls tend to be very
cautious in there rulings, always very careful to not step on each others toes.
As with many of the provinces of Tamriel a strong nationalistic urge is
constantly present in the cultural expressions of the people and they are quite
wary of foreigners.

Economics: The people of Skyrim are industrious but their land does not help
them much. Farms are small and sparse and yield very little per acre. Due to
this much of the food is hunted and the diet of many people largely consists of
meat. Hunting is also a fairly profitable trade and many people retreat to the
wilds in order to pursue it. The economy on a whole is strong with the primary
exports being lumber, pelts and furs and of course the finest mead in all of
Tamriel. Morrowind and Valenwood are primary customers of Skyrim lumber and the
pelts from the hunters adorn some of the finest cloaks that one can find. Silver
is the primary export of Markarth, a Hold in the south-west, and there are other
mines across the land that are quite productive. As stated above the political
disconnect does not extend to enterprise and some meaderies have plants in
multiple Holds and are quite large operations with considerable pull in the
Great Halls of the Jarls. This disconnect has allowed for a large increase in
the number of highwaymen and bandits on the roads, making the province an unsafe
place for anyone with a heavy purse. Chief among imports are food stuffs from
the warmer provinces where the soil is much better. Capital is also usually
foreign in origin though there are some dignitaries with large enough pockets to
make a difference. Nobility and high status comes more from tradition than
leverage or money and simply being a great warrior can lead to ones clan having
an elevated position.

The Civil War: The war that the Empire is gloriously winning was started by
Ulfric Stormcloak, the Jarl of Windhelm with delusions of grandeur and dreams of
being the next High King. It has caused further disconnect among the Jarls as
they have each chosen sides. The prospect of plundering and thievery has been
made much sweeter as well which has attracted a mix of criminals and would-be
heroes to the frozen landscape. The influx of people has done well to keep the
mead business alive and thriving. If I may put forward my most humble advice to
Your Majesty I would suggest a war of attrition with the rebel Stormcloaks. The
raw materials available in Skyrim is limited and they would not last long if cut
off from all sources of goods. The mines and large forests would keep the
soldiers well equipped but what good is a well armed soldier if he is starving
to death. The production capacity of Skyrim’s farms is not enough to sustain a
rebellion against your superiorly trained Legions.

Yours Humbly, Mikavel Silver-Tongue
