---
title: "Continuation of a Report to Your Lorship from Mikavel Silver-Tongue: High Rock"
reddit: 1ktem5
author: Ushnad_gro-Udnar
date: 2013-08-21T17:35:12Z
about: |
  Hello all. Thank you again for the tremendous honor of SOTW this past week.
  Here is the second part of the report on the political state of Tamriel. I
  went to High Rock and would love input, corrections and suggestions. I hope
  you enjoy it and thanks for the read!
---

*Politics*: After many a cold month in the harsh terrain of Skyrim my bones
ached for a warm fire in a warm hall and so I made my way West to continue my
report. I came to the land of High Rock in high hopes, leaving behind a war
between brutal folk. I found that the covert wars that are fought daily in High
Rock are no less frightful. The kingdoms of High Rock are not unlike those of
Cyrodiil, with a large percentage of the population made up of merchant and
peasant classes. This strong base leaves the rulers with much power to draw from
though the sword remains in its sheath unlike their Nord cousins who are quick
to fight. Instead the Bretons use less obvious means to wage war. Dining tables
and halls are the arenas of war here with treachery, betrayal and power grabs a
common occurrence among the aristocracy. Though hierarchical there is plenty of
room to move in Breton society and this has led to many in the lower castes to
attempt for glory. This has often been done through intellectual purposes and
many of our greatest thinkers are Bretons. I would advise your majesty to keep
this in mind when looking for more expert advice. Despite this fractured and
individualistic style of politics, the Bretons are made one by their cultural
norms and have shown an incredible ability to join together in times of hardship
such as the wars with the Redguards and the Orcs. This brings to light the issue
of the Orcish homeland or rather, their claim to one. There is little love lost
between Bretons and Orcs even still after the Warp and there is little doubt
that the problem of Orcish settlements in the Wrothgarian Mountains is a major
factor in the Bretons keeping military force readily available.

*Economy*: The cultural sophistication of High Rock has transferred to its
economics as well. Banking and capital investment are some of the top ways for
one to make money and gold from the coffers of Breton noblemen can be found
backing businesses and investments across the continent. The lands are fairly
fertile and there are enough surpluses for farming that some can be sold and
exported elsewhere though this is by no means a large part of the market. Next
to capital the largest export is works by craftsmen. The affluence of the
Bretons allows many to spend time on crafts such as fine clothes, shoes,
furniture and tapestries. Many of the leisurely goods are made here and I
believe your Highnessâ€™ favorite lounging chair was actually made by a well
respected craftsman of Wayrest. There is little doubt that money and goods such
as food are finding their way to the Forsworn rebellion in western Skyrim from
the gentry here. Lastly, the most important and influential thing to come from
within the borders of the Breton homeland are those who share my profession.
Shrewd diplomats are often from the drawing rooms of Breton castles and are
bested perhaps only by those from Colovia and Nibenay. This gives them the
influence over foreign dealings as they can be found in the court of almost
every ruler in Tamriel and use this leverage to help their kin back home, though
I have no intention to imply that they are under-handed or untrustworthy, they
mearly play the political game as good as anyone.

*Conclusions*: I would urge your Majesty to strengthen your relationships with
the rulers of the Five Kingdoms as they can be powerful allies and dangerous
enemies. The resources at their disposal are vast enough that they alone should
draw interest from the Empirical court, not to mention the resources in the
people. The Bretons have produced many note-worthy and brilliant military
historians and tacticians along with political thinkers and authorities in
nearly every field of study; I would humbly suggest that your Lordship keeps
these brilliant minds close by.
