---
title: The Whispered Web
reddit: 1l3vzl
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-08-26T09:10:33Z
---

And in this web, look not to find a Wheel. The simple and foolish see such basic
shapes. Do not think that Vivec was wise, the Ayleidoo “found” that shape long
before he saw it; and were obsessed with it. 8, they thought which was holy, yet
8 is what struck vengeance upon them. 8, their enemy had been split into. 8, the
foolish frame-makers. 8, the sections of the mirror of the foolish shape. 9, the
truth.

Who was linked to the 8? 9, of course, who became 7. How strong a thread he was,
that he had been linked to the first frame-thread, with only one link between
the two. And how many linked he is, that the Dragon’s web and the dead web
intertwined upon him 3 and more times to tighten the others until which he
pierced the other side of the web. Vivec was once again wrong, it was not a
Tower on the wheel, but more a sheath to hold the Sword at the Centre; for he
completed the web.

And how many threads that Dragon has, that he even eats some of it before it
gets built again. Of course that thread has always been confusing, when its
strongest link was invented by the ape-men of the Centre’s Heartland, when its
vibrating thread roams the centre’s sands and fights upon the threads of itself,
when the First Thread has been disconnected and left the web altogether.

And what a thread that was, who learned how to leave the web despite deafening
himself to the architect of the Centerex many times before. Yet, his beloved too
had deaf ears, whom now look towards severing threads for the Dragon to
re-destroy and rebuild. Though, as they had learned from trying to link between
the fleeing Dragon thread, who is called Auri-El, trying to flee from the web
does not always bring success as many, many more know; and they are numbered 0.

0, which is ironically First, is the reference frame thread of the web, which
even the Dragon and Dead threads could not escape. It would be ignorant to call
the Dead thread the Missing, just because the Inner-Web residents could not
observe it does not mean it was never linked, or that the link was broken; or
that Azura never shaped the link to make her own threads and forms.

Those who were the links and threads of Azura were made into the Webkeepers. I
still guide the wise of these people, but the wisest has never been linked
directly to me, yet he is also a weak thread and may be lost forever. The
fur-coated threads of Azura were precise, finely made and lacking the usual
restrictions that the links of the Dragon and Dead threads gave themselves, they
work on a larger scale than the Y’ffre-links and the threads of Boet-hi-ah, whom
severs links for strength, whom looks for the True Path off the web.

These paths, though, are not unlike that in which mortals appear to see
existence, as it is with the influence of the “natural change” of the thread of
Arkay on the Mundus Centerex web. That his stagnant change, another link to the
first frame thread, solidifies his confusing role on the malleable minds of
mortals.

Though, perhaps my favourite web-maker, Mannimarco could tie and tear and touch
the links of Arkay and tie his own over them. Likewise, the Mundus Centerex had
links o “death” connected and removed so many times that Mannimarco threaded
himself a new state above mortal, showing both the fallacies of the 8’s laws and
the eternal state of being misunderstood by most mortals, that which even the
second pair of Black Hands had stolen knowledge of; for theory and terror had to
be one to him as they are to me. But Mannimarco’s threads wove the lesson for
many to learn “as above, so below”.

Many are there mirror-links of greater threads, the most impressive, of course,
being that of the Many-Headed Red King. The Greatest, though, is of course the
mirror-webs us Daedra shape; even Boethiah weaved a web for the thread we
ignore, whom loves only his links. The foolish residents of the Mundus Centerex
believe that the Dragon thread severed our links. How ignorant they are that
they do not acknowledge the ever-living links of Bal, or the dark links of
Azura, or the many crawling links of Namira, or the mad links of Sheog, or even
my own twisting and plucking of the links that bind them.

We rarely wish to speak of the links of Vaermina, just as we wish to explore the
intricacies of the Dragon’s threads. They mirror things greater than even the
web and thus fear what they could lead to. Vaermina’s links were set strongest
in the mortal fool of Ur-Dagoth, whose strings were pulled so well even he did
not know; who likewise tugged at strings he should have stayed far from and
could not control, though it was his desire.

And what a fool he was, thinking he could mirror the arrogant deep ones and not
get wrapped up in unlinkable thoughts. Those deep ones were always arrogant,
they had observed the web and threads with their minds so simple that they
called the 9 linked threads by both their own names and understandings; as
though the forever-bound links of the 9 before the 8+1 could be described as
anything other than permanently bound web-threads of ignorance entangled into
the bones and shapes of Fleeing and Dead Spirits. But as he said, as above, so
below.

And yet, below is the sole-strand that leads to it’s own web. It is the strand
unexplored, except for 1. 1 is the mirror-being of the Web-Maker, whom took the
Sole Strand to it’s own web. This is all that can be said, for one cannot link
that which is separate.

Have you learned yet? Or does the Mundus Centerex still entangle you in its
minute intricacies? escaped by so few, successfully by even less. Discover soon,
that mirror-links of the first-frame strengthen the web, but it’s witness has
long since abandoned the Web, until the Sole Strand links the two.
