---
series: The Lore of Law
part: 1
title: The Legislative Process of Tamriel
reddit: 1l96f2
author: kilcunda
date: 2013-08-28T12:35:05Z
---

## Introduction

*(Skip this section if you’re a scholar in a rush!)*

Yesterday, [Tyondai asked][0] whether there was an “official” explanation for
the absence of levitation spells after the events of Morrowind. Many users
pointed [towards two NPC conversations in Oblivion][1] that reference The
Levitation Act of 421. Of course, in reality this was simply a lore-friendly
explanation by the developers - Levitation spells were cut from Oblivion due to
some exterior areas occupying different cells for performance reasons (E.g.
cities, Pale Pass, etc), allowing players to levitate over the walls would
prevent such a system from working as intended.

However, I started to wonder why such a law would be enacted, which eventually
lead to me wondering *how* such a law would be passed. Was it decreed by the
Emperor? Agreed upon by the Elder Council with or without his blessing? Was it
lobbied for by the provinces, or decided upon purely from experiences within
Cyrodill? Furthermore, say a person was caught levitating: Who will decide how
he or she will be punished or the type/length of sentence they would receive?
Does the judicial system in Tamriel operate similarly to modern courts in our
world, with juries and firm precedent influencing the outcome? Or is an accused
judged and sentenced directly by a count, jarl, king or guard? How would this
differ between provinces, or even territories within them?

At first I was simply going to ask /r/teslore but instead thought I would do
some research of my own. I was surprised by how very little we know and how many
texts within the games only allude to the legal processes within Tamriel. Stuck
at home sick with nothing better to do I decided to knuckle down, dig into the
deepest pages of the UESP and Imperial Library and share my findings with the
fine people of /r/teslore who may have the same questions as I do.

**Due to Reddit’s 10,000 character word limit, I’ll be splitting The Lore of**
**Law in to at least three parts released daily:**

- Part I: Legislative process within Tamriel
- Part II: Jurisdiction and Inter-province law
- Part III: Crime and Punishment in Tamriel

----

> Please, if you find an error in my sources, know something I may have missed
> entirely or have a different opinion to my interpretation of the texts feel
> free to comment and let me know, I’ll happily amend this post with your
> findings. I’ll try my very best to clearly differentiate between source-backed
> lore, my own interpretations and pure speculation wherever possible. I’ve
> studied Australian criminal law which may influence my comparisons to
> real-world legal practices.
{:.italic}

----

## LEGISLATIVE PROCESS WITHIN TAMRIEL

Before we delve in to what laws exist and where, it’s important to understand
where they originate from and how they are enacted. We’ll also dip our toes in
to the political structure of different provinces and the capital. For the sake
of simplicity I’ll focus mostly on the legal and political climate during the
events of Oblivion and Morrowind at the end of the 3rd Era - By the time Skyrim
takes place a lot has changed: The Empire’s influence on outer provinces has
waned, a [new dynasty of Emperors has taken the throne][2], the [Red Year][3]
has decimated the political structure of Morrowind and the
[White Gold Concordat][4] requires what remains of the Empire to uphold certain
legal obligations. Focusing solely on a united Empire rather than the effects of
a politically fractured continent will help keep us on topic. Of course, that
doesn’t mean that we won’t explore Skyrim or ignore relevant texts from the
game.

Firstly, lets look at the capital of both Cyrodiil and the Empire as a whole -
[The Imperial City][5], and more specifically, the [Elder Council][6].
Surprisingly little is known of the Council - It’s origins are unclear as is the
extent of it’s legislative power and structure. Volume III of [Rising Threat][7]
mentions that *(emphasis is mine)*:

> “High Chancellor Ocato convened the full Elder Council in an unsuccessful bid
> to select a new Emperor. Without an Emperor, the Empire beyond the reach of
> Cyrodiil began to splinter. Ocato reluctantly agreed to become the Potentate
> **under the terms of the Elder Council Charter** until Imperial rule could be
> reestablished, but a reluctant leader is rarely a strong leader.”

To the best of my knowledge, this is the only mention in any of the texts of the
“Elder Council Charter”, and I can’t recall any dialogue within Oblivion that
makes mention of it either. Given the nature of the document I think it’s safe
to assume that the Charter acts in a similar way to a constitution in our world,
and that after the death of Emperor Uriel Septim VII the charter outlined the
responsibilities of the Council in the event of no heir to take the throne. This
would make the Empire a [constitutional monarchy][8] with the Emperor acting as
it’s [head of state][9].

If this is the case, then it hints at the origin of the Elder Council itself:
One can assume that - similar to many modern constitutional monarchies in our
world - the Emperor (that is the crown, not Uriel Septim himself) once had full
or near-full [autocratic power][10] over the empire. At some point in time the
council was established to act as a sort of unelected parliament/congress with a
High Chancellor acting as it’s [Prime Minister][11] - perhaps as a result of
social pressure under a ruthless emperor, or as a compromise after a failed
[coup d’état][12].

> *(Note: I like to think the situation may have been similar to Tsar Nicholas*
> *II’s reluctant establishment of a Duma in pre-revolutionary Russia, but*
> *that’s purely speculation/liberal interpretation on my part).*
{:tag="aside"}

The [Elder Council Chambers][13] as seen in Oblivion also give hints about its
structure and operation. [This image][14] of the chamber shows us 30 seats,
suggesting 30 chancellors make up the Elder Council at any one time. We know
that there is only one “house” of the council unlike many western
parliaments/congresses that have both a lower and upper house *(AUS/US: House*
*of Representatives/Senate, UK: House of Commons/House of Lords)*. This means
after a successful vote a bill would go directly from the Council to royal
ascent/veto from the Emperor.

The layout of the seating suggests that all chancellors are equal - save of
course for the High Chancellor. It’s unclear whether certain Chancellors have
specific roles or represent different parts of the Empire, but we do know that
the Emperor has a power of Veto (again, emphasis mine):

> “Though it theoretically merely helps the Emperor govern by dealing with
> various details, the Council has proven capable of wrestling a substantial
> amount of authority away from the Imperial throne, and there is often a power
> struggle between the two. **The Council has legislative authority, and may**
> **vote on and enact new laws they deem proper. However, the reigning Emperor**
> **retains the power of veto**, a right famously exploited by Uriel Septim VI
> to restore the power of the Emperor when faced with an unruly Council.”
>
> - Unoficial Elder Scrolls Pages, Lore: Elder Council
> {:tag="cite"}

Although it may seem obvious and somewhat redundant to mention, the passage
above mentions that chancellors vote to pass laws. What’s more important is what
we don’t know- Would a majority vote allow legislation to pass directly to royal
ascent, or is a 75%/90% majority or even unanimous decision required? While
we’re on the subject, the “unruly council” mentioned above is an interesting
example of Emperor-Council relations and the uneasy power struggle between the
two:

> “Emperor Uriel Septim VI was crowned in 3E 290, but he was still a boy at the
> time. Though his mother was given a restricted Regency of the Empire, the
> Elder Council retained the real power, and its members enjoyed unrestricted,
> unlimited freedom to promulgate laws and profit from said laws. Uriel VI found
> it very difficult to retake the authority of the Emperor. He was given greater
responsibility over the course of several years, but wasn’t allowed full license
> to rule until he was already twenty-two years old, and by that time, the
> Council had stripped the office of the Emperor of almost all its real power,
> save the Emperor’s right to veto. After six years of vetoing, bullying, and
> generally strong-arming the Council, Uriel VI could finally claim to truly
> rule Tamriel, and a sage soon coined the saying “Uriel V conquered Esroniet,
> but Uriel VI conquered the Elder Council”. When Uriel VI died, he left behind
> a strong Imperial throne for his sister Morihatha. It’s known that the Council
> frequently became frustrated with the slow pace of Morihatha’s military
> campaigns despite their remarkable success, and it's commonly believed that a
> summarily tried and executed Councilman was the person who hired assassins to
> kill her in 3E 339. The succeeding Emperors of the Third Era maintained the
> dominance Uriel VI had established over the Council.”
>
> - Unoficial Elder Scrolls Pages, Lore: Elder Council
> {:tag="cite"}

----

[CONTINUED IN PART II - Jurisdiction and Inter-province law][15]

[0]: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1l5ahi/is_there_an_official_explanation_for_the_absence/
[1]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Levitation_Act
[2]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Mede_Dynasty
[3]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Red_Year
[4]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:White-Gold_Concordat
[5]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Imperial_City
[6]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Elder_Council
[7]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Rising_Threat
[8]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constitutional_monarchy
[9]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head_of_state
[10]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autocracy
[11]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_minister
[12]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coup_d'%C3%A9tat
[13]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Imperial_Palace#Elder_Council_Chambers
[14]: https://images.uesp.net/9/95/OB-interior-Imperial_Palace,_Elder_Council_Chambers.jpg
[15]: ./1lbrmb
