---
title: A Summary of the More Obscure Races of Nirn
reddit: 1lva4q
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2013-09-06T18:39:40Z
---

In my last thread (about the Redguards) there was some discussion regarding the
Left-Handed Elves of Yokuda. This went on to be a discussion where many more
obscure races outside of Tamriel were mentioned. Since it appears that a lot of
people on here are unfamiliar with these races, I will accommodate them, and
write a short summary on these species.

## The Left-Handed Elves

These were a race of elves living on Yokuda, to the west of Tamriel. There is
very little known about them, besides from their (Human) name, and the fact that
they were at war with the local Yokudans. During the many years of war, the
Yokudans developed a hatred for these Elves. Eventually, possibly to stop them,
the Yokudans blew up Yokuda. What happened to the Left-Handed Elves after the
cataclysmic event is unknown, but since they disappeared completely, it is safe
to assume the destruction wiped them off Yokuda, or the Yokudans soon hunted
them down. Nothing is known about their culture or appearance.

## The Maormer

The Maormer (Tropical Elves) are a breed of Elves from the tropical continent of
Pyandonea, to the far south of Tamriel. They have pale skin, and blank eyes,
often compared to chameleons. They are led by the immortal wizard-king Orgnum.
The ancestors of the Maormer were banished from Aldmeris, because Orgnum
launched a rebellion, hoping to increase his own power. Since their exile, the
Maormer have constantly harassed the Summerset Isles, even raising outpost on
the mainland of Tamriel. While once shortly allied with the Altmer, they did not
care that the Colovians killed off the entire Maormeri fleet. The last known
contact with the Maormer was in the second century of the Third Era. During the
War of the Isles, the Altmeri kingdom joined forces with the Empire and the
Psijic order, to fight of the Maormeri armada. It is said that the Psijics
brewed up a storm strong enough to destroy Orgnums fleet in such a way, that he
would never be able to raise such a force again.

## The Tsaeci

The Tsaeci of Akavir (to the east of Tamriel), might be, along with the Sloads
of Thras, the best documented non-Tamrielic species. They originate on the
continent of Akavir, but how they exactly came to be is unknown. The Tsaeci are
snake like beings, having scales over their entire body, and having a tail
instead of legs. They are vampiric, and are known to have “eaten” the race of
Men in Akavir (how literal this has to be taken is unknown). During the First
and Second Era, they have attacked and invaded Cyrodiil. Eventually they were
defeated by Reman Cyrodiil, and swore fealty to the Dragonborn emperor. During
this time, their culture left huge imprints on Tamriel, especially Cyrodiil. For
instance: the Akaviri Dragonguard was the direct ancestor of the Blades, and
their armour, weapons, and forts are still reminiscent of this. The Second Era
was proclaimed when the Tsaeci advisor of Reman III proclaimed himself leader of
the Empire, starting the Akaviri Potentate. Not much is known about their
culture, only that they are expert fighters, using “weapons to combat armour”,
instead of the Imperial way of “using armour to combat weapons”, and that they
are at constant war with the other species of Akavir.

>> The Sload

As stated earlier, the Sload of Thras, to the South-West of Tamriel, might be
the best documented species outside of Tamriel, and they had many dealings with
the continent. The Sload appear as slug-like creatures, standing a bit taller
than most Humans. They are very skilled with magic, and some of them, like
N’Gasta, are renowned necromancers. Sload culture is incredibly care- and
thoughtful. Most of their heroes take years planning, before they actually set
out. While not in any sense religious, the Sload are known to sometimes abide to
the will of Daedric princes, as long as they can profit from it. This is very
typical for the Sload, as they are incredibly opportunistic. They do not see any
problem with things that seem unethical to other species, as murder, theft and
genocide, as long as it gets the job at hand done. The most important points in
time when the Sload were in contact with Tamriel, was during the Thrassian
plague, which wiped out huge parts of Tamriel, and caused the All-Flag Navy to
sink Thras, as well as when N’Gasta came to Stros M’Kai. The Sload are unable to
communicate the same emotions as the other races of Nirn, and are often found to
either fake or exaggerate them to accommodate non-Sload.

While these are just a couple of the races outside of Tamriel, they are the most
important ones. For the other races of Akavir, I like to point the avid reader
to the book “Mysterious Akavir”, which is the only known source about them.
