---
series: Moon-Meetings
part: 1
title: Moon-Meeting with Tiber Septim
reddit: 1n5y9h
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-09-26T08:27:46Z
hide_series: true
---

The Red King, after taking conquest to the skies above his kingdom, moved to
enact more Nibenean actions upon his fellow diplomats as his Colovian style was
becoming too apparent and a true Emperor must be a mix of both.

Here he traveled through webs of hair spiralling into webs upon webs of their
own shapes until he reached their source, that of the Mane.

Once Septim reached the Mane, the large cat greeted

> “Welcome. I am such well crafted in the hopes we teach what was known though
> some I do not like the Cyrod blood leaking thin who peace made on my neighbour
> settle for later until respond”

<!-- -->

> “Ah, your famous speech. Teaching is not necessary, I am no student and you
> are no teacher. I am Voice of the Empire and much more; blood is blood, is
> there difference for Men anyway? I must discuss my expansion.”

<!-- -->

> “harbour no hate I respect your queen was fairer my people I love your
> subjects land flees wary of time killers reply”

<!-- -->

> “My choices are none of your concern, excluding the choices I make today. I am
> the Empire of Tamriel and Masser. I can become much more than what I am.”

<!-- -->

> “You are much more will you learn I hope yes watch the shifts you can become
> use right will the other have to kill again for your lesson be taught
> unwelcome hostility talk”

Tiber became offended by the Mane’s lack of clarity and spoke in another voice
“*HYAET AE ALTADOON TALOS*{:tag="span" .lang .ehlnofex}.
**JUL JUN DO TAAZOKAN AHRK LEIN**{:tag="span" .lang .dovah}”

> “Red King cool calm friend of mine many heads respect you speak old knowledge
> become sword become man become world high I hope Tiber arm observe observe
> observe”

The Mane did not give Tiber the time to respond, instead turning upon himself
and moving hair braids up and under and through each other for a window to
observe Tamriel below them.

Tiber looked upon all of Tamriel, from the glasslit beacons of Summerset to the
Throat of the World, whose true peak was unobscured from above. He saw the
jungles of Cyrodiil, the ash of Morrowind and, more importantly, the desert of
Elsweyr. Dunes shifted, shaped and formed almost at will. Tiber looked back onto
the Mane, who gave the same smile he gave all visitors.

> “Shape unshape make world as will Red King you are made for this peace I offer
sugar joy and apologies not needed no treaty great man visit death happy times
until we meet again”

The Mane stayed as he did before and will again, levitating in a structure of
his own self, smiling as he always did. Tiber had more to say, but knew it was
pointless and the peace he had searched for was gained.

----

This is one moment of the education of Talos. It is not the first, nor the last.
The wise look further for the other lessons.
