---
title: Fragments of the Lost Doctrines of Indl Neht
reddit: 1n6g74
author: mojonation1487
date: 2013-09-26T14:43:04Z
---

> *Below is what has been recovered from a manuscript found among the ruins of*
> *Morrowind, after the Red Year. Our best transliterations have shown these to*
> *be fragments of the Lost Doctrines of Indl Neht. Who this person was or if*
> *Neht existed at all is a matter of debate.*
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

----

Concerning Anu and Padhome. They are above The Wheel, and contain all
contradiction in themselves. Below them is a seeming duality of Chaos and Order;
these are called Father and Mother, but it is not so. They are called Brother
and Sister, but it is not so. They are called Husband and Wife, but it is not
so.

The reflection of All-is-Naught is AE. Cast down through The Wheel is the Tower,
the rapture of Love that destroys. All that is, what is it but a manifestation,
that is, a part, that is, a falsehood, of that which is not? Yet that which is
not neither is nor is not that which is! Identity is perfect; therefore the law
of identity is but a lie. In this utterance of falsehood upon falsehood, whose
contradictions are also false, it seems as if that which I uttered were not
true.

----

The Perfect and the [IM]Perfect are one, IS and IS NOT are one; nay, are none!
Learn then that all phenomena are the result of Chaos, even as the Aurbis itself
is a nothing expressed as the merging of two inequalities, or as the struggle of
Anu and Padhome. As all happenings have two causes, one predisposing, external
and exciting, the other conservative, static, and disposing; so it is with
dreams, which are two-sided, or unbalanced states of consciousness, diviner of
dreams as beliefs are of reality.

----

So let the Adept be armed with knowledge. [](){:tag="br"}
Then let him advance to the East, and make the [](){:tag="br"}
billet-work, saying:

GHARTOK PADHOME AE GHARTOK SITHISIT CE ALTADOON

Let him go round to the South, make the [](){:tag="br"}
billet-work, saying:

GHARTOK VELOTHI AE GHARTOK DUNMERI CE ALTADOON

Let him go round to the West, make the [](){:tag="br"}
billet-work, saying:

GHARTOK LHKAN AE GHARTOK NIRN CE ALTADOON

Let him go round to the North, make the [](){:tag="br"}
billet-work, saying:

[NUMINIT]

Let him then return to the hub, and so to the [](){:tag="br"}
centre of All [making the billet-work as he [](){:tag="br"}
may know how] saying:

GHARTOK PADHOME AE GHARTOK PADHOME [CHIM] AE ALTADOON

In this the signs shall be those of incalculable effort

Also shall a sword appear in the circle.

Let him then repeat the signs of royalty but not the [](){:tag="br"}
signs of ego; for it is not he that shall arise in [](){:tag="br"}
the sign of LHKAN rejoicing.

----

> *I propose the above fragments be taken under review by the IDAC, IGS and if*
> *deemed appropriate, the Elder Council. I further recommend all transcripts*
> *under silk remain as such, as our Tower Scrolls have become unreliable in*
> *light of recent events.*
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
