---
series: Moon-Meetings
part: 3
title: Moon-Meeting with Pelinal Whitestrake
reddit: 1n8g2a
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-09-27T07:10:46Z
hide_series: true
---

From the blood-soaked sands of Ne' Quinn Al was the mad Glorious Knight thrown
above into the embrace of the Mane, a more rapid entry than most get when
visiting.

> “Welcome. Why glorious mad kill confuse elders talk wrong fight defend”

<!-- -->

> “YOU ARE NOT MER”

<!-- -->

> “Mer more beyond no matter Ayleid kill peace unfound speak”

<!-- -->

> “Bastards are the sons of Auri-El and any who have his heritage! Leave me or
> I’ll kill you and that beast!”

<!-- -->

> “do you not understand what you are why kill Khajiit why Pelin-El of Aldmer”

<!-- -->

> “I am star-made and must kill the heretic bitch-shamans and bird-men; you’re
> next if you try to stop me”

<!-- -->

> “Khajiit not bird what name”

<!-- -->

> “Ysmir!”

<!-- -->

> “calm Ysmir no war peace for Nirni know reply”

<!-- -->

> “Speak clearly the tongue of Man or Ada or I’ll colour my hair in your blood
> and wear your face as a codpeice!”

<!-- -->

> “kill Ayleid not Khajiit do not blacken starry heart learn yet”

<!-- -->

> “What is a Ka-jeet?!”

<!-- -->

> “my people not Ahnurr faith please stop madness will leave sands”

<!-- -->

> “I’ll go where I please and none will stop god-given wrath! Where is
> Morihaus?!”

<!-- -->

> “Khenarthi child friend know better would you kill all cyrodiil is bad enough
> speak”

<!-- -->

> “I told you what I kill and defile and I have good reason to kill them!”

The Mane knew that Pelinal in his madness was unable to negotiate. The Mane held
Pelinal with his large braids wrapping around his body dripping with sugar.
Pelinal was directed towards looking at Cyrodiil at the Ayleidoon generals and
kings that only worsened Pelinal’s madness. Then he was directed to Alinor where
Padomay was denounced and mankind mocked, further angering Pelinal. But then
came the desert city Dune, where Pelinal observed that the children were not
taught Anuic heresy and the people had also been in conflict with elves.

> “I cannot teach you further leave or die keep your war elsewhere now he
> returns meet your mirror father goodbye”

Alkosh flew towards Pelinal and cut into his chest as he clawed Pelinal back
down to Nirn. As the two flew back down to the ground, Alkosh roare “Pelin-El!
Star-Made Knight! I do this for your shared madness! Come back when you are
complete or I will take my heart back!"

As Pelinal landed into the ground drenched in sugar and blood, he had regained
his sanity and commanded the men of Al-Esh to never venture into the deserts
again for they were not enemies of the Cyrods. Pelinal held back the other
reason, for he knew that even in his madness he could not defeat the cat-king
above him.
