---
title: We, Aedra
reddit: 1nzkqh
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2013-10-08T15:02:00Z
about: |
  This was co-authored with /u/TheNerdler. Most of the ideas were his, but I
  (kind of) took a run with it, and did the textual make-up.
---

Listen, brothers and sisters, for we have been lied to again! Not only did the
Trickster God curse us with mortality, our own Aedric gods did as well, for we
are not that different from the “divines”. They are using us, my people, and
have always done so. But not for longer now.

They cursed our ancestors, weak as they were from Creation, sundered by the evil
Lorkhan, to lose their immortality. Today, I call upon everyone to reject these
so called “gods”, and not bow down to any other being than ourselves, for they
are not to be trusted. And why you might ask? It is because they have used us,
brothers and sisters, they have used us. We are to them not their favoured
children, not the ones they concern themselves with because they care. Oh no,
people. To them, we are nothing more than a well, a source of power. We have
given them their forms, and their power. And how do they thank us? They strip
our souls of knowledge and Aetherial power, having us relearn everything we have
worked our whole lives towards.

And what is this power used for? Surely not for helping us poor mortals, but
purely for their own gain, for we are their sustenance. And with this in mind,
people, with this in mind, we are able to destroy the beings that have cursed
us. They require us, and if we stop, we can finally sunder these demons, as they
have sundered us. For if we give up the worship of the Aedra, they will turn
into nothing more than a shade of their former selves. How big is the influence
of the Nedic gods of old? Non. that is to say. And how much mightier is the Time
Dragon than Phynaster? Or Ebonarm? Infinitely mightier, that is to say. And all
that, just because of a bigger cult.

But we are not unlike them, for our souls can be shaped like theirs as well. In
Sovngarde, the ancestors of the North still reside, even though all souls get
wiped. Our stories and tales of hero’s shapes them, creating a collective
memory. These are the powers we hold, and this is why the “gods” have put us in
this prison, to feed of our power.

But how do they take our power you might ask? They harvest our very souls,
stripping them of all our hard labour and knowledge, using this raw, Aetherial
power to still their ferocious hunger. And don’t expect the Daedra to treat you
any better; Oh no, people. These demons of Oblivion also want your essence, but
the only difference is that they do not NEED it. They just hunger for it. So
today, my brothers and sisters, we will resent the gods, the Aedra and the
Daedra, both Anuic and Phadomaic. But we will not stop there: We will destroy
everything linked to these pretenders. We will destroy their temples and their
shrines. We will storm the metaphysical Towers that uphold Mundus, tearing down
the structures our ancestors were tricked into building.

Let us make Mundus collapse, and make us retake our rightful position of pure
et’Ada, unsundered and uncached. Today, brothers and sisters, we will bring
forth the end of everything, the oh so glorious and freeing end!
