---
title: COMMENTARIES ON THE MYSTERIUM XARXES
subtitle: BOOK ZERO
reddit: 1q1qn7
author: mojonation1487
date: 2013-11-06T20:13:52Z
about: |
  Well, I wasn’t going to post this, but since I plan on writing more stuff from
  Mankar’s perspective I figured I would post this to stimulate discussion on
  Mankar. Have fun with this one and PICK IT APART. Constructive criticism is
  the name of the game here and I would greatly appreciate the criticism as it
  will only lead to better texts!
---

by Mankar Camoran

----

Whosoever finds this secret volume, I shall call him liberator.

To be free will be to free others and your example will shine bright as the
Dawn. Either the faithful will follow the path to change or the ignorant will
run away to their static false comforts. The timid will bleed at the feet of
Mehrunes Godsbody as they stare into the wake of their own destruction.

The realization that sprouts from this destruction is liberation from the
equitable and thus a removal from the Bitten Demesne. Endlessly it will
transform the very name of your soul, until it is naught but a breath. Changed
beyond all recognition, fluid as water, becoming that which it was meant to be.
A twofold word, the blasphemy against the Biters of men. NU MANTIA! FREEDOM!
LIBERTY!

Razor-fed so that you may be tempered for the moment of exacting. For in this
blissful moment, full of agony and torment, you will find your freedom. Mighty
and erect you must make of your will for you climb the tower of fire whose apex
is lost in the void. Reach back into the beginning place, see yourself within
and breath with fire. Emerge as a multifaceted star, beautiful in the wake of
the destruction it causes. Falter not and you may make of yourself that which
you will, so that not even the Mender’s bite may bring harm.

With new eyes, see Tamriel for what it truly is. Dawn’s Beauty! TAMRIEL AE
DAEDROTH! We shall reclaim what is our Lord’s from the principalities that lie
and steal. The faithful will be elevated above the stars, for it was our Lord
Dagon who said, “When I walk the earth again the faithful among you shall
receive your reward, to be set above all other mortals forever.” So shall it be
novitiate! For I am the Mankar of stars, I am yesterday and know tomorrow. I can
never more be overcome. I know the secret of LKHAN, whose being is perpetually
revered of AE.

Bathed in fire and understanding, we will reclaim Dawn’s Beauty and in doing so
bathe it in the radiance of Lord Dagon’s coming! As the slaves of Malbioge threw
down their jailor king, so shall you cut away your very name and join me in
Paradise as the marshals of Dawn’s Light!
