---
title: Landfall and the Hidden Amaranth
subtitle: A Nu Theory
reddit: 1qtdj7
author: RectalOctopus
date: 2013-11-17T09:02:38Z
---

Anu is the Amaranth of this dream. He is the Dreamer but he is not the Godhead.
I submit that the Godhead is the Original Dreamer from which all Dreams derive.
There may be additional Dream layers between Anu and the Godhead but for the
sake of simplicity let’s say that Anu was part of the Godhead’s dream. Anu
achieved CHIM—he realized that he was a sentient individual in the dream of
another, that he exists and does not exist. With this realization came the
possibility of Amaranth—one who achieves CHIM and goes into sensory deprivation
to sleep eternal and dream a new Dream from within the Dream in which one
exists. Anu sleeps in the Sun of the Godhead’s dream.

The Anu who fought Padomay was a manifestation of the self and Padomay the
manifestation of the denial of self. I exist and I do not exist. Anu pulled his
brother Padomay outside of Time forever. Anu and Padomay no longer exist within
Anu the Amaranth’s Dream. Affirmation of Self and Denial of Self cancel out. Anu
the Amaranth now dreams as an Observer.

Sub-gradience is the key to creating a new Dream. Amaranth is the final
sub-gradient. Lorkhan realized this and so sacrificed himself and the Aedra to
continue the sub-gradience of the then-static et’Ada. In the Loveletter from the
5th Era Lorkhan is no longer considered the Doom Drum, but rather the Lunar God.
We’ll get back to the significance of this in a moment.

Landfall is the end of the Dream. Anu the Amaranth will sleep eternal as the
connection to the Godhead. His Dream is Void.

Only one who achieves CHIM can achieve Amaranth. You cannot plot a destination
if you do not know the destination exists. You cannot create a new Dream if you
do not know that you are part of another’s Dream.

The Thalmor succeed in unmaking Mundus. But Mundus has become the Hub of the
Wheel of Creation. Remove the Hub and the Wheel breaks. The Thalmor try to break
their cage and inadvertently break reality. The Rebel fights a battle he cannot
win.

Lorkhan has several Avatars:

1. Wulfharth L
2. Hjalti O
3. Ysmir R
4. Talos K
5. Arctus H
6. Septim A
7. New Man

The Scarab is a symbol of Lorkhan. The Scarab that Transforms into the New Man
becomes Amaranth. Lorkhan is the Future Amaranth--or rather, a Shezzarine is the
Future Amaranth. As mortals are a sub-gradient of Ada, only mortals can achieve
Amaranth--the final sub-gradient. A Shezzarine is an echo of Lorkhan’s spirit;
in other words, a Shezzarine is the mortal sub-gradient of Lorkhan. The New Man
sleeps forever in Anu’s Dream and dreams a new Dream. The Amaranth is the King
of his own Dream.

The Loveletter makes it clear: Love is the answer. Love of self and Love of
others; there is no difference. I AM AND ALL ARE WE. The answer is CHIM. One
must know the destination exists to plot a course. One must know the universe is
a Dream in order to escape to another Dream. Vehk returns from Aetherius to
teach those who would listen. Know Love to avoid the Landfall, my brothers and
sisters of the past.

The et’Ada are the original spirits. Ada-Mantia is the original Law. Nu-Mantia
is the new Law written by the Nu Man. The Laws of the next Dream.

The Digitals are strongly hinted to be et’Ada in the Loveletter. They will
remember Landfall and the mortals will forget, as they’ve forgotten the Dawn.
The Digitals say we come from another star…
