---
title: The Prolix Tower
subtitle: The Most Unknown Walking Way Explained (Impartially)
reddit: 1qz8og
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2013-11-19T14:50:00Z
---

The Prolix Tower is the unofficial First of the Six Walking Ways, the spiritual
pathways to reaching heaven through violence. But what is the Prolix Tower? And
how does one achieve such a state? Well, let’s breakdown the words themselves
for a moment:

- **Prolix (adjective): using or containing too many words; tediously lengthy**
- **Tower (noun): a tall narrow building, either freestanding or forming part**
  **of a building such as a church or castle; a place of defense; a**
  **protection.**
- **\[OR]**
- **Tower (verb): rise to or reach a great height**

Prolix basically means to do something for far too long in central context;
tower can either mean a tall building/defense platform/rising to a great height.
So what do these two words mixed together equal as the First Walking Way? Well,
I believe I have discovered the answer. The Prolix Tower is the least known way
to achieve heaven through violence because it doesn’t actually have to involve
violence.

The Prolix Tower, my friends, is achieving heaven by *patience*. Basically, one
waits themselves into godhood.

Yeah, I know, confusing. Here is an example: Let’s say one day officials from
your local government decide to encase you in a underground bunker to study the
War that’s ravaging the world for approximately 24 days. You have unlimited
water and food, and the latest technology. The only thing that you don’t have is
other people. During this assignment you study the War like you are suppose to
and basically wait until the 24 days are up. Except the days pass and the
government doesn’t let you out. You wait and wait but no one unlocks the bunker.
You cry, you yell; you even go insane from time to time. Eventually you deduce
that the people that knew you were in the bunker has been wiped out by the War
and you decide to go back to monitoring the War. Years pass and you constantly
review the livestream footage broadcasting from your television, waiting for
someone to find you, when you notice something. Some footage shows a young
soldier stepping on a mine and blowing up and you recognize it. However, this is
new footage so where could you have seen it from? You decide to review the old
footage recordings to see if maybe the new footage just reminded you of
something when you viewed it. Two years ago you saw footage from a battlefield
of a young man stepping on a mine and blowing up. And it’s the exact same guy.
You immediately begin to go through all of the recordings and start to match
them with the new footage – except it’s the exact same footage. It is right then
you exclaim “The War is fake! There is no War!”. At that precise moment the
bunker opens up and the people who locked you in there reveal that the War is in
fact a simulation, you were being trained to analyze the art of war in multiple
fashions, and you are now being promoted to General to fight the Real War
that’ll you’ll be starting with the new tactical knowledge you’ve acquired.

Crazy, right?

Let’s breakdown the example:

- The War equals the Mortality. It is not real and hinders your train of thought
  if you focus on it to much. The Real War is you becoming God and getting to do
  whatever you want.
- The Government Officials are the rules of the mortality, telling you that
  everything you see/hear/taste/touch/smell is what you are only allowed to do.
- The footage is you observing the rest of the universe with patience while
  waiting for the War to “end”.
- Becoming the General is reaching Godhood and waging Real War (doing God
  stuffs).

Being patient for an incredible amount of time allows one to observe the
universe in a more unique and thorough fashion than someone who rushes through
things. However, using the Prolix Tower as a Walking Way is insanely hard to do.
First, one would have to have the lifespan of an elf or use magicka to lengthen
it, because it’ll take at least a lifetime of waiting before realizing reality
is just a dream. Second, the method of reaching the Prolix Tower is unknown to
practically everyone. Pondering reality while waiting is not as easy as you
thought, eh?

## Beings Who Might Have Reached/Are Capable Of Reaching The Prolix Tower

Like I said above, one would have to have the ability to live a longtime to be
able to use the Prolix Tower method of reaching Godhood. So what beings on Nirn
are might have reached heaven through patience? And which ones are surely
capable of doing so?

1. The Hist: The Hist in my opinion are fully capable of achieving the Prolix
   Tower, if they haven’t done it already. It is unknown how long an individual
   Hist can live, but we do know that the sentient trees have existed long
   before recorded time during the Dawn Era and the species itself has lived
   through the entire of Elder Scrolls history. And due to their Hivemind
   mentality, the Hist has access to all past and present information of
   possible wilted Hist. Due to their amazing abilities and what we know about
   them so far, it’s not so hard to imagine the Hist reaching the Prolix Tower.
1. Divath Fyr: The Telvanni/Psijic insanely powerful Badass Grandpa that is the
   Fyr could in my opinion might be able to reach heaven through waiting. He is
   one of the oldest beings in Tamriel (he was born before Nerevar, back when
   the Dunmer were Chimer) and has lived through countless lifetimes working on
   his own experiments in his tower. I mean, he literally has powerful magical
   artifacts inside his house like they’re easily attainable commodities. Him
   achieving the Prolix Tower wouldn’t be all that surprising to me.

Well, I’m finished writing for the night. What do you guys and gals think about
the Prolix Tower? Please take your time with your comments. I can wait.
