---
series: The Numidiad
part: 3
title: The Numidiad, Vol. III
reddit: 1rgsgk
author: myrrlyn
date: 2013-11-26T02:30:06Z
hide_series: true
---

## Fourth Era

### Morrowind

“My lord! Dire news from the front! Our expedition forces breached the walls of
the last Dagoth Bastion, and the House’s reserve forces overwhelmed us! They are
pouring out of the stronghold now, and it is all we can do to hold our ground at
the Pass!”

“We expected as much from the lessened resistance, Commander. Dispatch
additional troops as needed; the Dres outriders may be of particular use in this
case. You must hold for one hour; after that, I will instruct you accordingly.”

“By your command, my lord Sotha.”

----

“My lord! What orders do you have?”

“How fares the front?”

“We have retreated beyond the Pass, but we give ground slowly. The onslaught is…
more powerful than we anticipated, my lord, and the terrain does not allow us
much ground to field.”

“Pull your men back.”

“My… lord?”

“Pull. Your men. Back. Vivec has moved Baar Dau into position above Dagoth’s
Stronghold, and he is unwilling to sacrifice his own army with the Sixth House.
Leave fifty Armigers at a choke point, and return everyone else to the
Ghostfence. Their sacrifice will be remembered.”

“As you command, Lord Sotha.”

### Cyrodiil

“The Dunmer are declaring the Fourth Era? The calendar is OURS! This **ERA** is
OURS! So they destroyed some rebel clan on Red Mountain, what, they think they
can declare their glory greater than the Empire’s? We should have ripped that
lover-liar’s heart out to adorn the Peace he sold Us! Now, what of the Numidium?
How fare the provinces?”

“Skyrim is in chaos, Your Majesty. Word has it that the Dunmeri assault on
Vvardenfell drove a native species called the cliffracer westward, and their
arrival in Skyrim brought about resurgence of their Dragon Cult. The Reach and
Haafingar are embroiled in civil war with natives and High Rock, and the middle
holds are fighting two fronts and paralyzed as a result. High Rock assaults
Skyrim and is reported to be constructing a potential defense against Numidium
on Balfiera. Hammerfell’s coast is destroyed, and her survivors are retreating
inland to the Alik’r desert. Our spies cannot follow. Valenwood has gone dark
and is reputed to be embroiled in a Wild Hunt on a scale never seen before.
Towns near the border have fled closer inland. Elsweyr has expelled all
foreigners and killed any they discovered after that. We do not know what they
do. Argonia sends assault columns regularly against the southern woods, and
while Leyawiin holds out due in part to Numidium, it is starving and weakening.
As for Summerset, they continue to occupy most of its attention.”

“Numidium itself returns periodically to the gantries at the Hall of the
Colossus for repair. Our workers report that the Elves grow steadily more adept
at damaging it, but it uses its manipulation of the Time-chaos to undo some of
their destruction. Furthermore, most of the fighting appears to take place in
the ocean.”

“Forget the bloody flaming Elves! We must unify the continent, then We can turn
Our full attention to the Isles. Smash the Bretons, clear out Skyrim, and We
will deal with the Dunmer Ourselves. We must have the North!”

“As my Emperor commands.”

### High Rock

The Direnni Tower dominates the Island of Balfiera. The original structure is
the core of a large fortress constructed by the Direnni clan and then the
Bretons over the millennia, though the gleaming silver shaft still looms far
above the roof of the mortal-made stone structure. The newest addition to the
complex is a massively intricate silver rune-form, writ across the ground and
walls with arcane sigils carefully traced. Evidence of construction is
everywhere around the tower, and workers can be seen pouring more silver into
carefully arranged molds. Ships laden with silver from the northern mines have
arrived weekly, and the blinding glare of the sun flashes incessantly off of
the work.

Atop the Tower itself lies a smaller version of the ground’s rune-form. It,
unlike the larger effort, is complete and glows with a pale light of its own.
Thirty-six chairs adorn the rooftop: along the circumference of the silver, the
octants each bear a cluster of four, and in the center, the final four face
outward along the axes of the compass.

The scaffolding around the Tower bears a quiet procession. As they reach the
top, the dignitaries quietly file to their seats. The rim holds elves from the
Isles, Valenwood, and Morrowind, as well as Redguards, Bretons, Nords, and even
four reptilian representatives of the Marsh. Four Khajiit also appear, having
been dispatched by their Mane. The Cyrodiils are, of course, not present. In the
center stand the three members of Morrowind’s Tribunal and the current head of
Artaeum’s Psijic Order, Lore Master Celarus. It is he who speaks first.

“I thank you all for coming today. The menace of the Cyrodiils has affected us
all, and though it may have been difficult to set aside old prejudices between
us, the matter of the Septim and the Numidium concerns us all. I believe Vivec,
of the Tribunal, wishes to speak.”

The assembled representatives mutter angrily. It is no secret that Numidium
passed into Tiber Septim’s hands from those of ALMSIVI. The gold-grey half-man
rises, and the whispers silence. He smiles slightly, and opens his mouth. Though
his exact words are untranscribable, he speaks of the myriad time-shards
splintering and dancing among the stars, and the multitudes of worlds born into
peace at the cost of those crushed into ruin under the heel of the once-Dwarven
machine. He speaks of love and loss and kalpic end and chaos, and the grand
magnificence of the years to come purchased at the cost of the wounded
world-scale of the inescapable present.

As Vivec ends his speech, a thundering roar is heard from a cloudless sky. The
rooftop gathering stands in alarm and looks to the south-east. There on the
horizon is a massive shadow swiftly drawing near. It is soon discerned to be a
flock of dragons, and at their head, an enormous red creature bearing a figure
on its neck.

Naafalilargus lands atop the Tower, scattering chairs and dignitaries, and the
Emperor Tiber Septim alights. The other dragons circle the Tower, clinging to
its side or landing on the ground or staying aloft. Tiber strides silently,
majestically, to the very center. Lore Master Celarus opens his mouth, and
stares dumbfounded and quiet when Tiber raises his hand. The Tribunal reacts in
various ways: Almalexia begins rallying magicka, Vivec stands off to the side,
half-smiling and half-sorrowed, and Sotha Sil immediately vanishes in a puff of
energy. His voice deep and commanding, Tiber intones:

> *GHARTOK CHIVER DALKADOON TALOS.* **DOVVE! GAHVON ZIILLE DII SAHROT KRONGAH**
> **TAAZOKAAN!**

A wave, near-invisible, ripples out from Tiber Septim. As it passes through each
dragon, the creature crumples, collapses, and begins to burn. As the scaly flesh
disintegrates, brilliant streams of light flow from the corpses to the Emperor,
who shines like a star descended as he consumes their power. Surrounded by a
storm of light and crackling energy, rivers of draconic magic rushing into him,
he hovers slightly over the silver filigree the Breton mages had carefully laid
out. It begins to melt, and with it, the large design on the island’s surface.
Tiber opens his eyes and laughs, a deep, rich, powerful laugh booming out from
his throat, sweeping its path clear. The ever-present tumult in time, to which
the others have long grown accustomed, suddenly reverts to calm, ordered
linearity. The change is abrupt, and the madness’ absence now seems mad.
Almalexia lies gibbering on the floor in front of him, and Vivec has vanished in
the interim, leaving his garments discarded. Celarus opens a portal and steps
through, and the thirty-two remaining folk burn blinded by the glory. A deep
rumbling shudders through the Tower, and through the island as a whole, and
Tiber Septim roars with the Voice of a God. Ada-Mantia rises into the air,
vortices of wind and light whipping around it, and atop it rides the new-made
Talos. Aetheric fire surges around him, obscuring his form behind scourging
light. Ada-Mantia rises and rises, escaping at last the depths to which it sank
when it was first created. The sun itself dims in the sky, and the two moons
tremble. Finally, the Tower is above the ground, and the piercing light of the
God atop it shines across the land. Spread out across Tamriel, lone dragons soar
above the clouds, shouting their triumph for all the land to hear.
