---
series: Bedtime Stories
title: A Bedtime Story About the Elves
reddit: 1rhg1f
author: myrrlyn
date: 2013-11-26T08:28:48Z
hide_series: true
about: |
  This is my other two-month-old piece originally written as a comment to [a
  /u/Mr_Flippers post][0]. I’ve edited it slightly from the original, but unlike
  the *Numidiad*, I was able to get everything I wanted to say accomplished on
  the first swing. So here we are, listening to a man tell a small story to his
  sick grandson. If the image in your head is of the opener to *The Princess
  Bride*, then you’re absolutely correct. Just set it in northern Cyrodiil, or
  Skyrim’s farm country.

  It’s also my fault that the next *several* pages in the collection are what
  they are. I’d apologize if I were at all sorry.

  [0]: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1n322k/discussion_for_the_community_leaving_the/
---

“So, you want a story, eh? Hahah… Let’s see. Ah, you’ve heard enough of
adventure and dragons and treasure for a week. How about a story of homes.”

“The world has always been divided into two camps. First there was the void, and
in the void we—”

> ”Anu and Pad-oh-may, I know that already.”

“Fine, fine. And so the elf gods ripped out Shor’s heart and flung it across the
ocean, and it made Red Mountain. And then the Men and the Elves went their
separate ways.”

“Now there were two groups of mortals…”

> “What about the Akaviri?”

“Three groups—”

> “And the Hist and Argonians?”

“There was all kinds of mortals, but we only care about the biggest. They were
called the Ehlnofey, and they split in half: the elves and the men.”

“Now the elves and humans fought a long time in the Dawn, and when Dawn broke
they stopped fighting, but only because they were tired and also nowhere near
each other. Hard to fight with your brother when he’s in a different room, eh?”

> “No, I just go to that room.”

“Shut up I’m tellin’ a story.”

“So the elves was all in the southwest, and the men was all in the north.”

> “What about the Redguards?”

“THE ELVES WERE SOUTHWEST AND THE HUMANS WERE NORTH. Then the men spread out and
some went across the ocean and some went down to the swamp and some went to the
heartland and some went even more north and came back, but they weren’t really
tribes yet, they were just men learning how to live without their gods.”

“The elves still had their gods, though, because they won. Or they won because
they still had their gods. Whatever. Anyway, the elves were all down there on an
island and when you have all that many elves in one place, disagreements are
going to happen.”

“Some elves, they fell in love with the sea, and they sailed off and became the
Maormer.”

“Some elves, they fell in love with the sky, and they walked off and became the
Ayleids.”

“Some elves were just plain weird and sailed away and now we call them the Left
Handed Elves—”

> “Were they all left handed?”

“No. Well, maybe some were. But they were called that because they were elves
but different. Like how your left hand is a hand, but different from your
right.”

> “They’re the same…”

“But totally backwards. Want to hear the rest?”

>*Yawn.* “I’m actually kind of tired…”

“Too bad.”

“Now some elves, they fell in love with nothing at all. In fact, they fell all
the way out of love and couldn’t find it ever again. They looked out the window
and they didn’t see a world; they saw a prison and a workshop. So they looked at
their gods and saw nothing but a warden locked in with them. So they tunneled
underground and built a big machine to break the prison and then they all got
inside and that was that.”

> “Did they escape?”

“No clue.”

“Some elves fell in love with men and money and went north and married all the
men there, and they became the Bretons. But first they were the Direnni.”

“Some elves fell in love with the trees, and they became the Bosmer. And somehow
there were also Khajiit. And now they hate each other, which just shows they’re
family.”

“Some elves wished they were men and fell in love with the snow and came up
north where all the men were, but the men had left by then, so they built quiet
villages and sturdy homes just like us. And then the men came back and they
realized they didn’t like them so they fought and the elves all died or ran
underground and then died in the Deep Elves’ caves. And they was the Falmer.”

> “Are you done yet?”

“Almost. Who’s left?”

> “Uhhm, you haven’t mentioned the ashies.”

“So there were still a lot of elves left down south, and the Plot Prince talked
to them and got them to fall in love with the world and then got them to follow
him out to Morrowind. But the Strong Knight didn’t like seeing his family split
up and especially not by the Plotter, so he took his army and went to stop them.
But the Prince beat up the Knight and the Knight’s armies got turned into Orcs
and now they don’t think they was ever elves.”

“And lastly the elves who were left fell in love with themselves and thought the
world was stupid, but they couldn’t leave it, so now they just act all arrogant
and they’s the Altmer.”

“Go to sleep.”
