---
title: Into the Void
reddit: 1s6d6d
author: KingBeron
date: 2013-12-05T18:24:01Z
about: |
  This is a little interactive fan-fiction. If you want, you can answer in a
  roleplay way, like [it][0]. All must be lore-friendly and this fan-fiction
  will take the direction which you wish. I will often send it to TES:O if it
  interests them. Oh! And I’m French, that’s why I have not a very good English
  language. So excuse me if I do a lot of errors. If the Lore section is not the
  good section, I will be greatful that the moderators move this topic. That’s
  the [French version][1]. I do the same thing on the [Lore Forum][2].

  [0]: https://forums.bethsoft.com/topic/1455044-the-zero-sum-of-zhiro/
  [1]: https://forum.wiwiland.net/index.php?/topic/54666-dans-le-neant/
  [2]: https://forums.bethsoft.com/topic/1480054-into-the-void/
---

By secret glyph: dreamsleeve transmission

Dreamsleeve: urgent, security protocols granted

Security protocols: Blade shadow snake oblivion frame

FEM Battlespire Glory of Martin

6300 miles above Skingrad, Cyrodiil

15 Morning Star 4E 96

To Chancellor Motierre, etc.

In accordance with your order of the 1st of this month, I gathered the troops
requested. The 20th regiment of the Shadow Legion came the 13th day of Morning
Star on the boarding area near Skingrad, in Colovie. Today, we have embarked on
board the FEM Battlespire Glory of Martin. Our forces therefore consist of
thousand and eight crew members and legionnaires: 121 Shadow Legionnaires, 321
Mages outside the Legion, 267 Legionnaires of his Imperial Majesty, 355
trans-planic marines responsible for ensuring the smooth operation of the
voidship and 77 Blades, in addition to the 11 general staff officers, including
myself.

I can only wonder about the exact nature of our mission. The presence of so many
Blades tells me about the importance of this latter. Therefore, I ask you a
clearer and more explicit mission order for better chances of success.

In any case, as you ordered, I send you my first regular report on the progress
of the FEM Battlespire Glory of Martin. Black anchors are wonderfully well
spared of Nirn. Nothing seems to have damaged the voidship during the first
phase of the trip. We are concerned that the proximity of the Aldmeri Dominion
gives us the possibility to receive damages. Indeed, Captain Lucius Maldius has
noticed the presence of a Sunbird above Arenthia. Whatever our mission, it would
seem that the Thalmor is interested closely too, unless this voidship has any
other objectives. Note that I strongly doubt this.

Yours under WG-T-One.

Captain Caïus Millinium, Master of the FEM Battlespire Glory of Martin,
Knight-Commander of the Ruby Armada, etc.
