---
title: Thalmor Census-Report On Argonia, Circa 4E 201
reddit: 1sjqv6
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2013-12-10T14:24:20Z
---

> *\[Written and compiled by Justiciar Jairen with the help of his Argonian*
> *companion Runs-Like-Water on the 3rd of Last Seed. Filed and sealed in the*
> *name of the glorious Aldmeri Dominion.]*
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

Hail to the Dominion, may our union last onwards and forever. I, Jairen, ever
faithful to the glorious Queen, have compiled a long and illuminating report
over the lizard-men of Argonia with the help of my Argonian liaison
Runs-Like-Water during my safe passage here over the past six months. In this
paper I hope to help inform our leadership of the province of Black Marsh of its
inhabitants before we decide to act.

----

## Government

**An-Xileel**: The An-Xileel are the political party that currently presides
over the entirety of Black Marsh and are an direct extent of the Hist’s will.
They form a council of sorts; the head of the group consists of the eight
Archcanons of the eight regions of Black Marsh (Shadowfen, Velderfern,
Stonemold, Daroon, Titenetca, Raincrawl, Ninen, and the Skirts) who are also the
leaders of the most powerful Greater Clan of that region. Of these eight, one of
them is the Underwarden, the absolute leader of the group. He or she is a
Hist-Speaker, and able to correctly perceive the visions the Hist reveal.

All members of the group wear green robes lined with red, and are heavily
dressed in necklaces, earrings, and rings. Runs-Like-Water explained to me that
the jewelry is symbolic, and shows that the Argonian hails from a respectable
and loyal clan.

## Military

**Warriors**: The Argonians refer to their own troops as Rakteleel, or Fighters
for the People. However, the rest of Tamriel (or the races that have interacted
with their soldiers) call them Shellbacks. This term arose because the first
Argonian troops that the Dunmer and Imperials encountered were wearing full
heavy armor, which is fashioned from the scales of dead reptilian creatures in
their home. These armors also come with hoods that hide their faces, and with
their shields strapped to their backs, they appeared very much like turtles to
the enemy soldiers. Hence the term Shellbacks.

**Units**: The Rakteleel consists of six main units. The Bosye perform the
duties of scouts, and I have observed them wielding knives and exotic blowdarts.
The Uxim are the main infantry, and wield maces and a special type of barbed
sword into combat. The Saesc form a combination of defense and long range
warriors by utilizing special oval shields and throwing spears. The Mie are the
Argonian battlemages. And the Yotix are the most dangerous unit – you could say
they are special forces of sorts. Those Argonians are trained to tame and ride
on the back of domesticated wamasu, and wreak havoc in their wake. The
Shadowscales make up the last unit of the Argonian army, as fast as ghosts on
the wind until their blades find your neck. I don’t know much about them, and
Runs-Like-Water refuses to elaborate.

**Weapons**: The Argonians use exotic weapons that I have enjoyed studying. They
are able to craft weapons out of two different types of ores. The first is
simply called “Argonian Silver”, and appears like a greenish-greyish metal that
is as strong as mithril, and maybe even twice as deadly. The second appears to
be some sort of enchanted black glass they call Obsidian. It is also apparently
used for jewelry, but is also able to be formed into incredibly sharp (but easy
to break) weapons. They use a projectile they called “blowdarts” and their main
weapons of trade appears to be maces, multiple spears, and barbed swords.

**Combat Magicka**: It seems that the lizard-people of the swamps have invented
their own form of destruction magic, one that I have been trying to learn
without success. Basically, is powerful water magic. I have witnessed many
Rakteleel in training conjuring water out of thin air and blasting holes through
wood and stone, or making massive tidal waves out in the sea. Could you imagine
the raw power that could be utilized if we could get the An-Xileel to teach our
mages that type of magic?

**Tactics**: I have only observed one actual battle tactic, and that was in
Thorn. It consisted of a group of thirty or so Saesc and Mie forming phalanx
formations to blow stone practice spears. At first I dismissed these old battle
plans – until the Rakteleel began to use maneuvers I’ve never seen before. The
Argonians were actually able to, under dire surfaces, virtually create a moving
five-sided wall with shields that housed eight or so Mie underneath the shields
on the roof allowing them to attack without minimal injury? Is this how the
An-Xileel were able to beat the Daedra so badly during the Oblivion Crisis?

## Architecture

**Overall Architecture**: I say with completely and utter honesty, that the
Argonians are the greatest workers of stone that I have ever seen. Their cities
are crafted from some sort of enchanted stone that never dissolves or crumbles
from outside forces, and only age. It amazes me that their buildings can be
completely constructed by such stuff. The Argonians refrain from using windows,
as they prefer to feel and smell the fresh air at all times. I would also like
to take the time to warn my fellow Mer that when arriving in Argonia that most
of the houses are at best partially submerged. The natives are overly fond of
water, and will not dwell near any area that is not even wet at the best.

The Argonians are also brilliant at creating a special type of mud they call
Pashou. It is created when mud and a special alchemic salve are mixed and dried
out in the sun. The end result is a small hut that is resilient to almost all
forces of nature, creature attacks, and is as strong as marble.

**Major City Architecture**: Originally, the major cities of Black Marsh
(Stormhold, Thorn, Gideon, Soulrest, Archon, Blackrose, Lilmoth, and Helstrom)
were built in differing art styles. Gideon, for example, was an ancient Ayleid
ruined that too my knowledge was abandoned and later taken by the Argonians.
Blackrose originally belonged to the long thought extinct Lilmothiit, and was
constructed upon their ruins. These cities still contain elements of their
former inhabitants influence (Blackrose, for example, houses what
Runs-Like-Water tells me is a Lilmothiit shrine). During the Imperial occupation
of Argonia, many of the cities was imperialized accordingly. However, shortly
before and after the Oblivion Crisis, the Argonians pushed out the men and began
to rebuild their own cities in their style.

**Minor Settlement Architecture**: The smaller settlements, like Alten Corimont,
are constructed almost entirely out of Pashou buildings, with a few stone
buildings here and there. They should not be much of a challenge, unlike the
main towns.

**Irrigation and Sewage Systems**: Unsurprisingly, one would not think that the
Argonians would have any form of irrigation or sewage management in their marshy
home. However, this is another area that I was quickly taken aback from. Black
Marsh does indeed have large canals built for directing the flow of water
towards crops. They even have a unique form of sewage treatment, which
Runs-Like-Water describes as this:

> *Things break down, so we build over and around it. The underground of the*
> *marsh is as much as a land as the world where fleshflies attack starving*
> *rats and strip them down to the bone. While many dry-backs view my home as*
> *“dirty” or “unclean”, it is actually not the case. My people prefer are*
> *water pure, and so we build many underground caverns beneath the muddy soil.*
> *Many of those caverns crisscross ancient, forgotten ruins that are best left*
> *forgotten…”*

## Religion

**Gods**: The Argonian Pantheon, despite my long stay in these borders, is still
almost completely unknown to me. I do, however, know that traditional Argonians
do not worship the Nine Divines nor the Merish Pantheons. To my astonishment,
Anu and Padomay are actually acknowledged by the Argonians, but are known by the
names Anruk and Seth in their native tongue. Runs-Like-Water tells me that the
two are not worshipped though, and are only given what they are due. What that
means I do not know. Another discovery I have learned is that the Bosmer god
Z’en is also acknowledged within Black Marsh as well, but not worshipped. My
liaison’s smirk when I commented about him makes me believe that he has a
totally different role in Argonian mythology than he does in the pantheon of the
Boiche. Despite this, the fact that the Argonians know about Anu and Padomay
makes me believe that they can be reasoned with eventually in due time, unlike
the Nords or the Redguards.

While I have found zero evidence to support this, I highly believe that the
Argonians do in fact acknowledge Auri-El, Magnus, and Lorkhan to some extent in
their culture. Unfortunately, I have yet to confirm this.

**Totems**: While traveling around the area of Thorn – the main city I have been
staying in – my liaison took me to a particularly putrid bog and showed me an
extraordinary old piece of stonework, gigantic and half-submerged within the
ground. It resembled a pillar, but was carved with weird shapes that gave me a
great sense of unease. Runs-Like-Water told me this was one of many ancient
totems scattered around Black Marsh, and that many of his people’s scholars
believed that they were used to venerate immortal beings. On closer inspection I
realized that the totem had the Thief constellation etched within its center,
with the picture of a bizarre face drawn around it. I have drawn a quick sketch
in my notebook of the totem and have sent a copy along with this report.

## Society

**Naming**: Argonians, my liaison has informed me, usually possess three names.
The First Name is their ‘Black Marsh’ Name, given to them on their Naming Day.
It is usually only used by fellow Argonians. The Second Name is a somewhat
translated form of their Black Marsh Name, and consists of three words that are
hyphenated. It is used when traveling outside of their borders. The Third and
Final name is their Clan Name, which denotes that they belong to a certain Small
or Greater Clan in Black Marsh. It consists of two words, and is also
hyphenated.

For example: My liaison’s Black Marsh Name is Yuthi, his Hyphenated Name is
Runs-Like-Water, and his Clan Name is Trei-Pim. All of them are the same in
context, but different when used for certain events. This was one of the things
I found quite interesting about the scale-backs of the marsh. Do the Argonians
think of everything?

**Family**: Every Argonian, in Black Marsh or not, belongs to a Clan. Clans are
the family units of the lizard-men, and they are loyal to each other to the very
death. Clans are brought into being when a well-honored Argonian is allowed to
create one by the Hist, so that honor will be forever associated with his
family. This Argonian becomes the Primogenitor of the Clan, which will bear his
or her name forever. If a Clan gains enough honor and recognition, it can end up
becoming a Greater Clan. Greater Clans very much resemble the Great Houses of
Morrowind, having great sway over the politics and military practices of
Argonia. The An-Xileel itself is headed by the leaders of the most powerful
Greater Clans, which are eight in number, that also control the eight regions of
the province.

**Occupations**: Most Argonians are assigned a specific task in their Clan
shortly after their Naming Day, based off their already displayed skills and
what I believe is a form of ‘evaluation’ from the Hist. Unfortunately, I have to
see this process myself (I am strictly kept away from the City-Tree despite my
requests), but Runs-Like-Water practically confirms these things for me. A list
of jobs I have learned so far are “Hist-Minder”, “Moss-Weaver”, “Shellback”,
“Stone-Carver”, “Hist-Speaker”, and “Vine-Catcher”.

**Hist**: The enigmatic Hist, the trees that the Argonians believe gave them not
only life but a sense of purpose, are the forthright of their society.

*“The Hist are everything to us,”* said Runs-Like-Water to me one day while
exploring the marketplace of Soulrest. *“For what would we be without them? We*
*care for them as they care for us. We fight for them as they fight for us. Ah,*
*I see. I can tell by the look on your face. You believe my kind worships the*
*Hist, don’t you? That is not true, not at all. They are the Great-Lifegivers*
*of the Saxhleel, but they would never allow us to call them gods.”*

Oh, how I wish I was able to have direct contact with the trees of Black Marsh,
but the An-Xileel refrain me from ever approaching the City-Tree area of any of
the cities we approach. Sometimes I very much feel like an prisoner among these
shell-backs.

**Traveling**: Traveling in Black Marsh consists mainly of boat travel across
the many inland rivers and canals, but there are some roads (but not much).
There is also some sort of ‘riding the roots’ system that allows one to quickly
travel to one point to the next, but I do not know much about it.

## Customs and Practices

**Loyalty**: The Argonians view loyalty, but personal and open, as the greatest
attribute a person can have. They are an extremely loyal to one another as a
people, to others outside their race they view as friends, and above all, the
Hist. It is despicable for an Argonian to take their word on something,
regardless on the circumstances. If forced to do this, they will become
extremely shamed  and exile themselves within the jungles of Black Marsh for
many days, until they believe they can make up for the horrible excuse of
behavior. It is quite fascinating to watch, but not funny at all.
Runs-Like-Water states:

> *For my people, your word is everything. If you give it, you WILL follow*
> *through on it. Breaking this promise is a great undoing, and you will be*
> *adequately punished. If it small, than you will exile yourself until you are*
> *no longer shamed. But if you commit a breaking that is too much to bear,*
> *then you will be banished permanently from the marsh and never allowed to*
> *return. You will be forever marked, and all of our kind will know that you*
> *are not to be trusted.”*

**Jewelry**: The Argonians are quite beautiful makers of jewelry, which I guess
goes hand-in-hand with their amazing stoneworking abilities. I have seen many
pretty pieces, ranging from solid gold earrings to beautiful obsidian necklaces.

**Cuisine**: The Argonians, must disgustingly, mostly eat their food raw and
sometimes still alive! I’ve had to specifically tell the cook in the inn I’m
staying at in Thorn to roast my meat, or I could suddenly have some sort of
gilled monstrosity trying to escape from my plate in front of me. The only food
I say that I rather like within Black Marsh are yillygeeds. Yillygeeds are
small, blind green worms that help the Argonians grow their sugarcane crops. You
all on the Isles may not agree, but they taste rather sweet, like sweetrolls.
Argonian children eat them by the handful.

----

I hope this report finds its way back to you, your Majesty, even though I have
no doubts nothing will halt its journey. Tamriel will soon be in our grip, once
and for all.

Your humble servant,

Jairen
