---
series: The Eight Anecdotes of Perakeluin
part: 3
title: Mephala Plots Peryite’s Downfall
reddit: 1sjw66
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2013-12-10T15:36:11Z
---

There soon came in the Aurbis where many of the other spirits began to dislike
Peryite and his orderly ways. And out of all of them, it was Mephala who hated
him the most. In the early days shortly after they emerged from their
blood-spots, Mephala came out of hers with silk-like hair that stretched into
every space and non-space, allowing her to hear many things. But then the Little
Dragon came and told her that everyone kept tripping over the threads, and had
her cut her hair to keep everyone happy. This made her angry, because now she
couldn’t hear all of the good stuffs without being there herself.

So Mephala called a meeting in one of his secret places with his friends
Hircine, Molag Bal, Nocturnal, Vaermina, and some others so they could discuss
what to do with the Little Dragon.

“Now, I think most of us here hate Peryite,” Mephala began. “So I came—”

“He keeps ruining my hunts,” Hircine grumbled. “Says they are ‘unethical’. What
does that mean anyway? I haven’t read Magnus’ New Tome of New Words yet.”

“He actually told me that I was making the Aurbis too dark,” Nocturnal scoffed.
“Can you believe that?”

“He doesn’t let me play as much games as I used too,” Molag Bal pouted, and then
tried to impersonate the Little Dragon’s voice. “Stop it, Bal! You keep breaking
things in all your ruckus.”

“Well,” said another voice, and the group turned to stare at the shiny face of
Jyggalag, who was straightening . “Your games are unethical Hircine, you do make
the Aurbis as pitch as the color black Nocturnal, and Bal you do keep breaking
things.”

“Who invited you here?” Mephala demanded. She turned to Hircine, who shrugged.
Nocturnal stared back at her, and Molag Bal said, “Don’t you even dare look at
me.”

In unison, the four turned to stare at Vaermina, who made herself quite small
before answering. “He was helping me straighten my corners, and the next thing I
knew—”

“And I don’t like how you all keep talking about Peryite,” Jyggalag said. “The
Little Dragon is my friend, and I don’t think he is all that bad.”

Suddenly a thought-plan-image struck Mephala, and he smiled a crooked smile that
made even Hircine flinch. Jyggalag, however, was unfazed.

“Ugh, let me fix that for you,” he said and reached to try to make Mephala’s
smile un-crooked.

“Stop that!” Mephala screeched, then returned to her soft voice. “But Jyggalag,
what would happen if I told you Peryite wasn’t doing his job correctly?”

“I wouldn’t believe you,” Jyggalag said and crossed his arms. “Peryite always
does his job the way he is supposed to! He would never do anything to upset his
father-shedder-brother.”

“Oh?” Mephala feigned surprise, and reached out to grab a piece of her hair and
dragged it to the secret place. “Then listen to this, Jyg. It should
prove… enlightening”

You see, Mephala had herself lied earlier in the Aurbis, and instead of cutting
of all her thread-hairs he instead left one intact and out in the Aurbis to
float around. Peryite had not seen it because it was so fine, and it just so
happened that this thread had been around when Alduin and Peryite lied to Magnus
about his Old Tome of New Words, because they decided to be very sneaky when
they knew they shouldn’t have.

So Mephala (after recovering her breath from the pulling of the thread-hair; it
was a pretty big darn thread-hair) she had Hircine and Molag cut off and the
sounds of the Little Dragon and his eldest brother came out the severed end:

“You… ate the Tome didn’t you, Alduin?”

“I didn’t mean too!”

“How could you?!”

“Blame the hunger our father gave to me. Me and Magnus had just finished leaping
around as usual when we both stopped, and he pulled out the tome to write in a
new word. And then Z’en came and asked him to teach him a new word, and I
suddenly grew horribly hungry and next thing I knew the tome was sliding down my
gullet.”

“I can’t believe you did that! Now how will we all learn new things to say? I
need to tell Magnus immediately so he’ll know what happened to his tome.”

“Please don’t! He is my greatest friend and I don’t want him to get mad at me.
Just tell him the tome got destroyed some different way.”

“Ugh, fine eldest brother. I’ll lie for you because I love to lie.” (That last
part was not actually said by Peryite, but by Mephala, because she really hated
the Little Dragon).

Jyggalag was speechless. “Peryite…Peryite lied…?” he said. Then his face
suddenly grew very angry. “That… is… the… most… un-orderly… thing… EVER!!!”

“And you know a lot of orderly things,” Hircine said, guessing Mephala’s plan.
“You would never lie!” He nudged Nocturnal, who had guessed the plan too. Soon
she was whispering all the things Hircine said into the dark places inside
Jyggalag’s head and he began to think like them.

“You know what?” he said very angrily. “I would never lie!”

“And you would do a way better job than that Little Dragon!” said Mephala.

“And I would do a way better job than that Little Dragon!”

“You should tell the truth and take his place!” Vaermina said.

“I should tell the truth and take his place!”

“So you should get up and head to Aka’s sleepy place and confront him in front
of everyone, including Magnus!” chimed in Molag Bal and Boethiah together, but
they hated each other so they shut up (but they did it to fast, because they
damaged the not-air that Magnus had made).

“So I should get up and head to Aka’s sleepy place and confront him in front of
everyone, including Magnus!” Jyggalag roared and jumped from his seat. “C’mon
everyone, I must go confront the Little Dragon who I thought was my friend but
was nothing more than a liar!”

Jyggalag marched off to the sleepy place, with the other et’Ada closed behind
him.
