---
title: The Epithalamium of Arimatha
reddit: 1sloal
author: purveyoropulchritude
date: 2013-12-11T02:24:31Z
about: |
  Hi all – I’m dinmenel, if you haven’t pieced it together from my posts under
  this pretentious handle. I’m reposting this here because I neglected you guys
  before, and ‘cause there’s a puzzle at the end that no one has solved yet.
  There are more (and better) reasons behind the actions of the Dwemer than we
  usually acknowledge. But seeing them? That’s not something I can bring down
  from a mountain. That’s something you need to *climb* to.

  So, if you’re willing, answer this question: do the advocates of
  incomprehensibility play as queens… or as pawns?

  Letters are clues. I’ll be here, helping… and they’ll be watching.
---

[Begin][0]: [The Epithalamium of Arimatha][1]

----

Professor Taoiseach

University of Gwylim

Dearest Taoiseach,

My most profound apologies for the abruptness and length of pause in my
correspondence; I was called urgently away from our debate on a matter of great
academic importance. My field work in the Dwemer ruin of Rkund, which is south
of Riften if you are not familiar, has unturned a find of some importance. Some
months ago, my workers excavated the remains of what we believe to have been the
facility’s primary meeting hall. Unfortunately, extensive Falmeri presence
necessitated suspension of further efforts (although it does indicate that
extensive segments of the city survived the mountain’s collapse), but the
diggers were able to extract several unique items before being forced to seal
off the excavation. Chief among these items were a series of personal Dwemeri
notebooks of a type hitherto unknown to modern archaeology.

Since our last meeting, the restoration and translation of these notebooks has
been my occupation; a most timely occurrence, for if you will recall you had
only just challenged me to find an example of Dwemeri society and personal life.
I must not claim all the credit, however; my colleague Aranur in the Orrery at
Firsthold has been instrumental in the dating of the text’s entries. The Dwemer
employed an absolute system of reckoning based on the confluence of astronomical
conditions. Employment of the orrery (after calibration past the un-times of the
Marukhati according to the ancient records) has allowed me to approximate a
conversion of the Dwemeri dates given herein to our Imperial reckoning.
Likewise, I should not have been able to complete the translation at all without
your insights into the Dwemer language.

The enclosed document is what was known as an epithalamium. Epithalamia were a
matrimonial practice of the Aldmeri (early Merethic period). In Dwemer society,
a child past a certain age was expected to maintain a notebook written expressly
for the purpose of being read by the child’s future spouse or civic partner.
These notebooks, or epithalamia, recorded everything a Dwemer wished their
spouse to know about their lives, and were also used for a sort of “social
science”; that is, to record the status of an individual’s relationships and to
elucidate solutions to interpersonal problems. On the eve of a Dwemer’s wedding,
an abstract of the entire epithalamium was written and placed at the beginning
of the document, after which the entire notebook (or set of notebooks, as you
will see) was presented to the Dwemer’s spouse in exchange for the spouse’s own
notes. As you will no doubt see, these documents were considered sublimely
private, to be read only by one’s spouse, and unpermitted perusal was a serious
offence.

We do not possess, unfortunately, the entire set of this particular Dwemer’s
epithalamium, but I have translated the first notebook and provided both
translation and a copy of the original for your perusal. Translations of the
rest of the notebooks are still in progress; you will receive them shortly.
Until then, enjoy the first entries of the Epithalamium of Arimatha.

I hope all is well in Gwylim, and that you are as safe and cozy as you have ever
been.

All my love,

Dinmenel

Intrepid Investigator

School of Thoughts and Calculations

Alinor

----

Dinmenel

Intrepid Investigator

School of Thoughts and Calculations

Alinor

My Dear Dinmenel,

What an absolute treasure you have uncovered! Even now I find myself staring at
your notes, still quite speechless. To my knowledge, no document of this import
has been published since the Hanging Gardens controversy, late third-era. A gem
– a gem! And not just for its significance as a rare personal insight into
Dwemer society, but even for its own sheer beauty. Were there ever a more
fascinating people?

With your permission, I intend to share this with my colleagues in hopes that it
will put to rest the chorus of skeptics from the more pedestrian departments who
continually try to cut our funding with their vehement insistence that any
pursuit of Dwemer Anthropology is inherently doomed to failure. I’m sure you’ve
heard the arguments yourself – that the whole society was so essentially alien
such that no empathy or identification with their race could ever be possible. I
believe you have proved them quite ignorant.

No thanks could ever suffice for the great favour of sending this to me. I am
warmed you thought of me on the cusp of the greatest discovery of your career.
Further updates on your progress in translating the rest of the epithalamium
would be welcome. I expect you will be quite busy for the next while, but if you
desire a break from the academic hysteria that’s sure to sweep over this, come
pay me a visit in Gwylim. It’s been too long.

In anticipation and love,

Taoiseach

Professor mirabilia

University of Gwylim

Gwylim

----

Taoiseach

Professora Mirabilia

University of Gwylim

Gwylim

My Dearest Taoiseach,

Many thanks for your sweet note; I am pleased in your pleasure. Having set aside
projects sundry and complex and devoted all my considerable efforts to the
translation of the rest of Arimatha’s notebooks, I send to you now the enclosed
package. It is, unfortunately, a rather spotty synthesis of the document as a
whole – we did not recover all of the component texts during Rkund’s excavation;
most notably those representing the time periods of ME 1325 – 950, ME 900 – 500,
and ME 470 – 1E 130 – but still, I think it represents an interesting view into
the arc of Dwemeri life. Even without the full document, however, this is a
weighty tome in total, and so for this stage I have selected only passages key
to Arimatha’s personal narrative to compile and present to you. I will, of
course, be happy to provide you with the complete material at our next meeting;
I’m sure you will notice many interesting linguistic quirks in it that I have
not even suspected.

Happy reading and much love,

Dinmenel

Intrepid Investigator

School of Thoughts and Calculations

Alinor

----

Dinmenel

Intrepid Investigator

School of Thoughts and Calculations

Alinor

My Dear Dinmenel,

Absorbing myself in your notes was again a pleasure, though I was affected
overmuch by the contents and fear there can be no happy end. I hope you won’t
think less of me for finding myself unable to maintain a professional aloofness
– it is difficult to remember the author has been gone for millennia. Your
treasure of a text is as captivating as ever, and I hang on your promise of a
final installment.

I remain yours always,

Taoiseach

Professora Mirabilia

University of Gwylim

Gwylim

----

Taoiseach

Professora Mirabilia

University of Gwylim

Gwylim

My sweet ‘seach,

I hope this package finds you well, and not suffering overmuch from the
cessation of your retreat’s leisure. Hopefully this will help to return you to
yourself. It is my pleasure to present to you the compilation of Arimatha’s
final intrapersonal notebooks, the last fruit of my efforts. I eagerly await
your commentary on the views and perspectives they contain, as well as on the
epithalamium as a whole.

All my love,

Dinmenel

Intrepid Investigator

School of Thoughts and Calculations

Alinor

----

Dinmenel

Intrepid Investigator

School of Thoughts and Calculations

Alinor

My Dearest Din,

How can I ever repay you? I remember it was not long after we first met that I
expressed my frustration that no personal account of the Dwemer perspective
existed, a conversation which sprang to mind many months later when I received
your first translations. So closely did they match my desire, I admit I was
forced to consider whether they were forgeries… but surely no amount of genius
could invent such a tale.

One thing is for certain, the Rkund excavation must resume immediately. I can
put together a small, provisioned team to assist your own and I’ll wager we can
convince other institutions to do the same. The College perhaps. It will be
vital to acquire a fair force of armed guards if the area is as infested as you
indicated in your previous letters.

I admit I do not know what to expect when the ruin is unsealed, for I do not
fully comprehend the intricacies of what exactly is preserved within that
artificial womb – where, precisely, is the difference between Aurbical awareness
and total introspection when both subjects are composed of nothing? Your final
installment noted a hitherto unmarked distinction between tonal architecture and
the sigil sciences, which I believe indicated the former as uncertainty given
definition, and the latter as definition given uncertainty. Your thoughts or
elaborations on the matter would be most welcome for the finer points of Dwemer
science are lost on a linguist like myself.

It has long been known that it was the Dwemeri understanding of the fundamental
unreality of the Aurbis that fueled their advancements. Our author’s innovation
being – correct me if I am mistaken – in the inducement of consciousness at any
level of subgradience by bringing it to the awareness of absence. The Dwemer
might perhaps reverse our well-known phrase – “I am not, therefore I think.” I
was surprised to see her abandon what she valued, but again I was not, for she
had suffered.

Oh Arimatha, is there really only nothing to know? Must a lack of certainty
indicate a vacuum? Meaninglessness? Everything in me rails against it, for I
have pursued mysteries spun of nothing, riddles that were not true puzzles,
anticipation without climax, and felt only the insult of empty promises. I came
to recognize the hollowness of artifice, and you are not hollow. Your mystery is
not without substance. You are not nothing to me.

There is nothing to understand? But what is a world where we do not try to
understand each other? You did not believe this I think, though you professed it
– for you presented a portion of yourself to be understood, though comprehended
only imperfectly (for we are privileged only to a small sliver of your thoughts
and feelings, candid though they may be). Still, it was a privilege. A privilege
to share a closeness across time and space, even one of which you will never be
aware. A privilege to feel a sympathetic echo of your dissatisfaction in my own
chest. A privilege to love you. And I think that though the two banks of a river
might never touch, still a bridge could be built to link them: though we might
find things transformed as they cross from one side to another, still there can
be exchange and a comfort of nearness.

But that was not what you wanted I suspect. It is not solitude that troubles
you.

Not loneliness and not aimlessness either, but some inexplicable and causeless
absence of satisfaction. Want runs tangential to this “Ever Method”; the two
hardly touch. I cannot decide – is it the homesick longing for what was once had
and perhaps forgotten? Or an anticipation of something which isn’t yet, but may
one day come to pass? But that is love, which is a pursuit. And that is why I am
coming for you, Arimatha. I pack for cold weather.

Ah me. Dinmenel, forgive my…hmm…humanity. It is inappropriate in professional
correspondence, though I do not always think of you professionally. Thank you
again so very much for your transcriptions – I cannot imagine the effort it must
have taken to translate them. I remain, as always, ever yours.

Love,

Taoiseach

Professora Mirabilia

University of Gwylim

Gwylim

----

Dinmenel

Intrepid Investigator

School of Thoughts and Calculations

Alinor

My Dear Dinmenel,

I confess to the sin of eagerness and am feeling its effects. I have not found
Arimatha’s purported remains nor any sign of her cloistered children. And so I
write to you Dinmenel, despite our long silence; despite all that occurred
between us these past three months.

I was not hurt when you declined to respond to my offer of a joint expedition.
You are free to bend your efforts to whatever you think worthwhile, and you were
certainly not alone in your reluctance to join me (if that is what your silence
portended). The academic community has been less than thrilled with my
insistence that Rkund be reopened. In the end, my proposal appealed only to the
business aspirations a man of means – Arville by name – who invested a measure
of his own fortune into the endeavor in exchange for whatever artifacts we
unearthed.

As a result, the scale of the excavation was far smaller and slower than I
anticipated. Progress was impossible. My benefactor’s impatience boiled higher
for every day we lingered in the picked skeleton of Rkund’s upper halls – those
same levels your team explored not a year ago, for we managed to reopen not a
single passage. The lower, collapsed sections resisted demolition magic,
stone-empathy, and manual removal. My own doubts grew, and I began to consider
that the seals you placed on the excavation were only partially mundane. Is
their purpose to keep the Falmer in…or are they to keep me out? Is that why I
have not heard from you in so long? What did you find here, dear friend, and why
did you not tell me?

When it became apparent the ruin would offer up no treasures, Arville took most
of our team and disappeared, ostensibly to prepare for a more intensive attempt.
Ever since I have been stranded in Skyrim, soliciting funds from whichever
academic or religious bodies to whom I could find travelers to carry my letters.
Arville, I have not seen for nearly six weeks – I do not know if he will return.
It has been difficult. I confess I slept several nights frosted under a fishing
boat until the Witches of Riften took me for a sodden street-conjurer and fussed
me warm with blankets and dubious soup.

Ah Dinmenel, weeks have turned to months and the excavation remains suspended –
I find myself returning to your notes. I am not a fool – what they say at Gwylim
about my fixation matters little when the evidence is there on plain paper.

A return was promised…Or do I have it all wrong?

I thought I would find Arimatha here, or at least something of her – a
conviction that had me laughed out of every circle from here to the Isles. But
does it really so strain belief that such a master of the nature of
consciousness might find a way to cling? To reassert herself?

Perhaps these children, these constructs with minds that branch further than the
Aurbis itself, can not be found here at all. Perhaps I search in the wrong place
altogether. I make myself present and they remain absent. As absent as you
yourself have been…

No matter, forgive my ramblings and complaints. I ask only for what new insights
you might have had into the Epithalamium’s final paragraph. Forgive my
unsolicited letter and unprofessional desperation. What must you think of me
these days?

As Always Ever Your,

Taoiseach

----

Taoiseach,

Although your eagerness is admirable, your sedulousness leaves one wanting by
its absence. I have been occupied these last few months by intensive research
into just those questions you have raised, far from the reach of messenger or
memospore – of which you may make what you will. Had you committed the novel sin
of waiting for my response before investing such extensive mental and economic
resources into a foredoomed project, you might now be in more favourable
circumstances.

Unfortunately, my own efforts have been little more effective. Arimatha’s final
words are, indeed, perplexing. What does it mean that she shall be “renewed in
consciousness”? She admits to have passed from this world with her kin. What is
it her children are seeding, and where are they planting it? Who is the
Pneumatect she mentions so often with regards to hypnopompic enchantment? What
experiment did she devise, and for what reason? And perhaps most curious of all,
what is the significance of the sudden appearance of the Elder Scrolls?

I do not have the answers to these questions, although I have searched more
libraries than most scholars know exist. Therefore, I suggest we open this
discussion to our esteemed colleagues across Tamriel. Perhaps a congress could
discover what we alone could not.

Until we meet again,

Dinmenel

Intrepid Investigator

School of Thoughts and Calculations

Alinor

----

My Dear Dinmenel,

The Pneumatect, I can assert with some confidence, is Kagrenac, a well-known
tonal architect whose title is well-attested in surviving Dwemeri literature. I
find myself alarmed to reflect on the nature of her association with that
individual – I am sure you yourself have heard the speculations that he was the
author of the Dwemer’s disappearance. What those two minds might have contrived
together I can not imagine. As you have noted, their disciplines were of
opposite nature – Arimatha, who fabricates consciousness – and Kagrenec who (we
suspect) brought his entire people to the unconscious. Am I to understand from
your letter that you believe Arimatha’s children to be a final and intentional
experiment on the subject? Perhaps, my dear friend, we might still work together
on this? You may be in as much need of me as I am of you.

Another matter:

I received a much-garbled spore snippet from a colleague of mine and I’m afraid
I lack the means to send a reply through the same channels. If you manage to
track down Scourgicus, could you pass him the attached letter? I feel as you do
– that this mystery can only be resolved by large-scale collaboration – and I
know S. is certainly capable of leading such a discussion. His input would be
invaluable.

Yours ever,

Taoiseach

--enclosed--

S.

Much of your message was lost. Are you to tell me that you have located A.’s
children, and that the experiment remains untouched? I gathered that you had
found evidence that Kagrenac’s project had failed! Indeed, have the Dwemer
failed to remain conscious and therefore absent? What incredible news this will
be to the scientific community! May we perhaps speculate that Arimatha
succeeded? Please send me more information on your discovery, this is the
greatest news since the Epithalmium was uncovered!

Sincerely,

T.

[0]: https://www.dropbox.com/s/zzcipnlc825o2jx/Epithalamium.pdf
[1]: https://www.dropbox.com/s/1x2xajyi8ajchng/EpithalamiumNill.pdf
