---
title: Rise Now, Great City of Winterhold
reddit: 1t5f18
author: Avian81
date: 2013-12-18T05:42:08Z
---

This is a poem I made dedicated to the once great city of Winterhold, enjoy!

> Farewell to you, Great Winterhold, the Kingdom of Unforgiving Cold.
>
> Once the Capital of all of Skyrim, now a mere shadow of what has been.
>
> Your Kings once held the Jagged Crown, now a Jarl leads this small town.
>
> Blood ran down your streets before, From Rebellion to a Lasting War.
>
> No other city could match your fame, now nothing but a city of shame.
>
> You once rivaled the great City of Solitude, it's no question you have lost
> this feud.
>
> Crowded streets full of happiness and life, now replaced by sorrow and strife.
>
> Merchants that came from Necrom to Alinor, once came to trade all sorts
>
> But now they would just ignore, the the barren village in the north.
>
> The College once held in high regard, now has a reputation scarred.
>
> It's a shame to see what has happened, a city's glory come to end.
>
> Farewell to you, Great Winterhold, Your sons will remain forever bold.
>
> &nbsp;
>
> Rise now, Great City of Winterhold, Remember the stories of old,
>
> A fortress you were once called, do you remember? Or will you forever slumber?
>
> Shall you continue your fall? And become another Saarthal?
>
> Remember of the ones who fought for your throne? Their stories now etched in
> stone.
>
> I grew up in the City we all remember, there is still hope, for there is an
> ember.
>
> All is not lost for the new day rises, You cannot forever stay in crisis.
>
> Rise and remember your great legacy, for this is no mournful elegy.
>
> This is a message to rise once more, to become the city we all adore.
>
> Rebuild the districts you once lost, do not be lost in the winter's frost.
>
> What we are now is a curse, but remember our goal, and fulfill our role,
>
> As the builders of our city's fate, our rebirth has been foretold. Why wait?
>
> Rise now, Great City of Winterhold, Not all your stories have been told.
