---
title: Mundus in Miniature
subtitle: The Subterranean Settlements of the Ayleids
reddit: 1t84fj
author: indiges
date: 2013-12-19T04:42:22Z
---

> **Editor’s Note**
>
> I recently had the good fortune to stumble across several bound volumes of
> scholarship produced by the Society for Cyrodiilic Antiquities, a body
> established during the reign of Uriel VI and which dissolved in the years
> following the Oblivion Crisis. These volumes offer a fascinating look into the
> world of late Third Era scholarship on Cyrodiilic topics, and though I have
> not completed my study of their contents, it is my hope that they will provide
> a useful tool for the modern scholar of our great province.
>
> Lucretius Mella
>
> Imperial University of Bravil
>
> 4E 201
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

Janus Gelasius

Presented before the General Congress of the Society for Cyrodiilic Antiquities

22 Second Seed, 3E 346

Ammianus Hall, University of Nibenay

A great deal of debate has arisen recently regarding the subterranean nature of
the Ayleid settlements found throughout Cyrodiil. Why, it is often asked, would
a society so utterly fixated on the heavens, so enthralled by the majesty of
pure aetheric energies, choose to dwell beneath the surface, separated from the
object of their veneration? This line of inquiry is, in my opinion, quite
representative of the advances made in the field of Ayleid scholarship in recent
years. For centuries, it was taken as a fact in both popular and scholarly
circles that the Ayleids were subterranean society by their very nature. This
assumption we now know is fatally flawed, and had its origins in both ignorance
and anti-merrish bias. The Alessian Order was, of course, responsible for the
greatest portion of the intentional destruction of Ayleid sites, and under their
auspices much of value to the scholar was irreparably lost. This includes not
only the structures themselves, but also their contents, as anyone who has
attempted to study Ayleid texts or material culture may attest. It is thus
unsurprising that the scholars of the Second and early Third Eras, deprived of
both physical and textual evidence of large-scale surface settlements, initially
labored under the belief that the ruins they found were broadly representative
of the ordinary mode of Ayleid life.

The other source of belief in a principally subterranean Ayleid society was far
less benign. The (quite understandable) animus that existed toward the Ayleids,
and mer in general, following the revolts of Alessia and the rise of the order
named after her led to the general demonization of the Ayleids in Cyrodiilic
culture, an attitude that persists, to some degree, to this day. The
characterization of their culture as subterranean played into this process of
demonization. No doubt many of you, like me, grew up hearing bedtime stories
about the cruel and cunning Wild Elves, inhabitants of the deep forests and
caves, who would creep about in the shadows, wanting nothing more than to snatch
naughty children from their homes. These were simple tales meant to frighten
children into good behavior, of course, but the presence of numerous underground
ruins lent such stories the air of truth. Furthermore, by painting the Ayleids
as a subterranean people, they were associated in the popular consciousness with
the Dwemer, another group of mer who have been often misunderstood and
demonized.

It is now common knowledge that the Ayleids built extensively both above and
below ground. Their surface settlements were often arranged in the form of a
spoked wheel, surrounded by smaller circular structures. Fine examples of this
plan may be found at [Ceytatar][0] and [Sardavar Leed][1], as well as in
modified form at [Miscarcand][2] and [Nenalata][3]. The most famous and visible
settlement of this type, of course, is the Imperial City itself. Being the
largest and most important Ayleid city, it likely served as the model for all
the other sites constructed in this manner. This particular form, as others,
including Prescius and Onton, have noted, is notable in its reflection of Ayleid
concepts of metaphysics and cosmology, and I encourage the interested reader to
consult their works for a thorough and captivating exploration of this topic.

In spite of these extensive and elaborate surface works, it is undeniable that
the Ayleids were also keen and accomplished subterranean architects. We thus
return to our original inquiry: why would a people who so venerated the aetheric
energies that were transmitted to them through the Sun and stars willingly
choose to sunder themselves from those energies? Based upon my own work, as well
as that of my esteemed colleagues, I have come to the conclusion that the
Ayleids were aiming, through the structure of their settlements, to mirror and
recreate their conception of Mundus. I have already mentioned the manner in
which the form of their surface edifices mirrored their conceptualization of the
world as a wheel, a topic explored in greater depth by scholars far abler than
I, but their below-ground works have, thus far, passed largely outside the
attention of the scholarly community in this matter. I aim to rectify this
oversight.

Consider the relation the Ayleids saw between Mundus and Aetherius. While the
exact doctrines and beliefs of the ancient mer are largely unknown to us, again
thanks to the work of the Alessian Order, they seemed to have view Aetherius as
an ideal, a perfect realm separated from the baser material world of Mundus. The
Sun and stars were the filter that allowed light, the pure product of Aetherius,
to pass into the lower sphere. The flight of Magnus and his cohorts was, to the
Ayleid mind, not an act of cowardice or malice, but of providence and love,
providing the world of Magnus’ devising with access, however limited, to the
higher, more excellent realm. The structuring of subterranean Ayleid sites is,
in a sense a reflection of this providential act. The Ayleids intentionally
created a darkened space, ruled by the three lesser elements, then, in their
replication of the magnanimous actions of Magnus, brought pure, untainted light
into that space, “improving” it in the same way that Magnus himself improved
Mundus. This is why the original occupants of these ruins lit the spaces only
through magical means, including their famous Welkynd stones. They were
replicating, in miniature, the mundane world below the surface, and that meant
that it was necessary for them to provide their demiurgic creation with the
proper aetheric energies. This replication also allowed the Ayleids to
symbolically take on the roles of the Aedra when they descended into their
subterranean space, ruling over the subjugated mannish population as gods. Of
course, they also ruled over the slaves in a god-like manner on the surface, but
that was a matter of mere practicality. It was in their underground structures
that their actions took on mythical dimensions.

Some, of course, have assigned the subterranean constructions of the Ayleids a
far more prosaic explanation. My most revered and capable colleague, Florentius
Sorex, for instance, has described them as originating in the desire of the
Ayleids to maximize the amount of arable land available, as well as to obtain
for themselves more temperate living conditions, citing the relatively constant
temperature and humidity of the sites as evidence. To this, I can only respond
that the ruins display features  that reflect, in my opinion, a clear connection
with the religious beliefs of their inhabitants, a connection that extends far
beyond mere climate control. Unlike him, I refuse to write off the pervasive
usage of magical lighting, for instance, as a mere cultural whimsy, born of
sorcerous pride. Frankly, such a casual and, if I may say, thoughtless
explanation does a disservice to this magnificent society and to all those who
choose to study it. The Ayleids were a thoughtful people who, as far as we can
tell, integrated their understanding of the world around them into every aspect
of their lives, including, as I have just demonstrated, their splendid
architectural works.

[0]: https://uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Ceyatatar
[1]: https://uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Sardavar_Leed
[2]: https://uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Miscarcand
[3]: https://uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Nenalata
