---
title: Personal Thoughts and Reports on Northern Tamriel
reddit: 1tc7q5
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2013-12-20T18:06:34Z
---

3rd of Rain’s Hand, 3E 425

----

The Bretonic kingdoms are to be disgraced for their inability to handle the
situation of the Orcs. The continuing formation and destruction of the “state”
of Orsinium is proof that the Bretons are incapable of proper statecraft, or
that the Direnni have chosen to withhold Altmeri political knowledge to remain
as a higher ruling class than even those Kings and Queens of High Rock.

Firstly, the Bretons are unable to maintain the upper hand when dealing with
beasts; this alone should be enough.

Secondly, the Bretons cannot destroy the state or its people fully. Their
biggest failure is that they have caused such lackluster devastation to the Orcs
that they have grown accustomed to it and may now be fully prepared for whatever
any nation throws at them. The Breton’s key failure is that the state of
Orsinium means that their enemy is – somewhat – unified enough to be a threat,
or even an annoyance. The destruction of Orsinium, along with its symbol to the
Orcs, becomes inspiration for further Orcs to rebuild and because they are no
longer widely dispersed they will continue rebuilding because they have the
means to do so and become better with each cycle.

Other nations far older than High Rock have already faced similar situations and
yet do not have the same problem as the Bretons. In Cyrodiil, the slaves
revolted with such passion that there hasn’t been any legitimate accounts of
Ayleids living anywhere since that First Era in which they were killed. In
Skyrim, there are no signs that native Mer (which excludes Dwemer) had ever
lived there other than children’s stories and untrustworthy accounts from
adventurers (whom will be discussed later) that describe Falmer as “hunched over
beasts” that jump out of the snow at wanderers (clearly showing that they cannot
be Mer). Both examples evidently showing that simple Men are more successful in
statecraft in their primitive times than Men-Mer who have lived in their land
for eras; for both Cyrodiil and Skyrim had mighty and expanding empires in both
past and present yet High Rock seems to never progress further than its own
city-states’ borders, excluding recent events.

The ruling class of Bretons, if it could properly be called this, also notably
has troubles with Eastern Skyrim over a group known as “Reachmen”. Whilst not
being an apparent threat to most on either sides of the borders, it shows the
lax attitude in Breton society which finds too much security in the walls of a
city than its own people.

The Nords of Skyrim, however, are surprising in how often they are insulted yet
far more ingenious than any dare imply. Despite the obvious cases of
overwhelming snow, the land of Skyrim coupled with the culture of Nords has lead
to an existing dual-society of classes that can easily continue to support
itself without any need for improving production. The first and more
conventional being the sheer amount of farmland leading to the working farmers
at the bottom of the chain being able to not only abundantly feed those above
them, but to comfortably give food to other allies leading their lords to be
much more wealthy than what is seen in other provinces. These lords, of course,
being under the ruling Jarl and his or her family. Between the lords and
peasants is the proletariat metal-workers supported by the peasant miners and a
mixture of the small merchant class and the adventurers; whom will be discussed
later. In some cases, however, the mines are owned by lords who manage many
mines and have won themselves inter-hold and international influence due to
their exceeding wealth and monopoly on some materials.

Then there is the second class, whose hierarchy is unrelated to the first,
comprised of adventurers and mercenaries. The most interesting part is that it
as a society is mostly disorganised and attempts at organisation either do not
work or are discouraged by any possible ruling class, who are the guild of
fighters known as “The Companions” that openly and continuously operate without
hierarchy and – when in need of order – call upon those whom are merely
respected most for their in-field achievements. Even those that are not part of
the Companions manage to continuously find sources of coin so long as they have
the means to travel where problems arise; and even then almost all whom are a
part of this “second-society” are skilled hunters and outdoorsmen, allowing them
to continue eating and finding shelter when the other society no longer needs
them.

Due to their overabundance, the intelligentsia of Skyrim – though a limited
group – live in relative comfort when properly employed. The College of
Winterhold, College for the Voice and Bards’ College show the Nords have a
higher demand for education than is usually thought, however, this is not to say
that all citizens of Skyrim are literate or even speak well (even when sober).
Whilst many College of Winterhold alumni become court wizards for Jarls and
academics, they are too small a class to truly influence Skyrim and must either
ascend classes or gain power as an individual elsewhere.

For now, I’ll stick to the south of Tamriel. Snow is a terrible thing for legs
to be defeated by.

—Anaril
