---
title: The Day of Shame
reddit: 1th9nt
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2013-12-22T20:30:12Z
---

A “holiday” often overlooked, is the Hamerfellian “Day of Shame”. This
tradition, remembered on the 20th of Rain’s Hand, strongest on the coastal
cities of the Redguard province, finds its origin in the 564th year of the
Second Era, during the days of the Knahaten Flu.

## History

While this holiday is celebrated in Hammerfell, the story that is remembered
starts in Black Marsh. in 2E 560, the first cases of the Knahaten Flu were
reported. This disease, that affected all sentient life in Black Marsh, with the
exception of the Hist and the Argonians (which gave rise to the theory that the
Flu was designed by the Hist themselves), was the cause of major extinction
across the province, exterminating at least the local race of man, the
Kothringi, and most likely the vulpine race of the Limothiit. The story of the
Day of Shame is centred around the Kothringi, or, to be more precise, one ship
filled with (most likely) the last living Kothringi, trying to escape the Flu,
dubbed the 'Crimson Ship'. The Crimson Ship left the coasts of Black Marsh in 2E
563, and the sailors and refugees desperately tried to find a safe haven, but to
no avail. At every port, the last of the Kothringi were refused entry, out of
fear for the Flu (which was still raging on, both in Black Marsh, and on the
ship). After more than a year on the open seas around Tamriel, the Crimson Ship
neared Hammerfell, still hoping to find refuge. However, even the hardy
Redguards were deeply afraid of the lethal disease, and they, just like the rest
of Tamriel, turned their backs on the Kothringi. The Kothringi, without anywhere
or anyone to turn to, decided to sail west, in hopes of safety and help, never
to be heard of again. The Redguards, knowing what they had done, locked their
doors, and shut their windows.

## Tradition

The Day of Shame is one of the more grim days of the year for Hammerfell. While
there are no religious services, or large scale ceremonies or festivities, any
traveller to Hammerfell will recognise this day, as all locals will keep their
doors shut and spend the day at home. This is not only out of shame, but also
because of fear. Local legend has it that, if any Redguard would dare push his
or her shame aside and walk around freely through the city, the Crimson Ship
will return, asking for shelter again, bringing the Knahaten Flu with them
again.
