---
title: The Curious Case of Corvus Umbranox
subtitle: 152nd Year of the 4th Era, Marcus Averius, Synod Historian
reddit: 1tj5k2
author: Avian81
date: 2013-12-23T14:49:53Z
---

## Foreword

I, Marcus Averius of the Synod, have been tasked with the research of events
that occurred during the Oblivion Crisis. Though my research will not be
directly tackling the Crisis itself, I will be researching events that occurred
within the same time period, which is overlooked by modern historians. There
have been many events that occurred during the Crisis that call for further
investigation. Such events include The Rapid Emergence of the Blackwood Company,
the sudden reappearance of Count Corvus Umbranox, and the appearance of a so
called “Oblivion Portal” on a small Island outside Bravil, are only a few of the
vast amount of events that went largely unnoticed during the Oblivion Crisis.
Since most of these accounts most likely had some sort of Magical help or
another, further research on them will be of benefit to the Grand Council in the
long run.

## The Count Anvil

Count Corvus Umbranox is something of a local legend in Anvil, and for good
reason. His disappearance and reappearance have gone unexplained well to this
day. Before his disappearance, the nobility of Cyrodiil had a rather low opinion
of him, there were rumours that he was a member of the Thieves’ Guild, which I
should note that at that time its existence was said to be false if Imperial
Guard reports are to be believed; there were also rumours he was a part of the
Mythic Dawn and that he only re-emerged when he saw that Mehrunes Dagon would
fail the invasion; there is even a claim that he was a vampire, for there were
rumours of there being a vampire as a count at that time. After years of
reviewing records and papers both within the Imperial Palace and at Anvil, and
even an eye witness account of his reappearance, I think we can finally come up
with a solid conclusion on what really happened.

## The Reappearance

Our only sources on the reappearance is the written statement of a guard at
Castle Anvil who witnessed the event, and a Journal of a maid who was working in
the Castle when Umbranox reappeared. The day that Umbranox reappeared, a
messenger arrived to give Countess Milona Umbranox the ring of her husband
Corvus. Who this messenger was, we have no clue, the accounts simply state
“messenger”, no description about the messenger was mentioned in both documents.
When the Countess received the ring, that was when a man approached with what is
believed to be an Elder Scroll in hand. Then the man spoke words that neither of
the witnesses could interpret, but both recall suddenly realizing that this
stranger was indeed Corvus Umbranox. Both witness accounts state that they were
unable to recall what was spoken, and thus what he said does not appear in any
record, mental or written. It is currently unknown why they were unable to
understand his words. The count then turned to the Messenger and handed over
what both eyewitnesses refer to as simply, “a Gray Cloth” while sharing a few
hushed words with this mysterious individual. They never saw the messenger ever
again. A few days after the incident Umbranox was asked to be interviewed by the
Black Horse Courier, but they were denied by Umbranox via letter. His only words
regarding his disappearance was “a Daedra did it.” though his words were taken
as a joke and was later dismissed.

## Debunking the Rumours

There have been many rumours to what really happened to the count and it seems
that an Investigator at castle Anvil kept records of all this, these records
were discovered in a chest in the basement of the guard barracks in Anvil. One
famous rumour is that apparently Umbranox was part of the Mythic Dawn, this
cannot be true as, there is no evidence to support this claim, since the Mythic
Dawn had never got their hands on an Elder Scroll as far as anyone knows.
Another rumour is that he was a vampire, since that there were rumours at the
time that there was a Count that was a vampire. This is not true as Umbranox,
was usually seen visiting the chapel during the day, it should be noted however
that old records from the Mages’ Guild point that Count Skingrad Janus Hassildor
was the vampiric count, this secret was well guarded within the Mages’ Guild and
within the Skingrad Court. As for the rumour that Umbranox was held hostage it
should be noted that he himself appeared at Castle Anvil and no ransom was ever
made. And finally we have other rumours that I do not even have to explain such
as Umbranox being reincarnated, rumours that he was abducted by Ayleids, and
rumours that he became a Mad God.

## The Thief Theory

The Thief Theory is the most likely theory to have been true, and it is also the
least known. To understand the Thief Theory one must remember that a day before
the reappearance of Umbranox an event happened in the Imperial Palace known as
“the Ultimate Heist” an Elder scroll was stolen from the Imperial library, they
never knew how the thief managed to escape but recovered evidence shows how the
thief could have. Evidence suggests that this thief entered the Palace through a
series of sewers and ruins known as “the Old Way”. The description given by the
witnesses of Umbranox’s reappearance could fit well with that of the Stolen
Elder Scroll, and the Gray Cloth, could very well be the Gray Cowl of Nocturnal,
otherwise known as the Mask of the Gray Fox, leader of the Thieves’ Guild. Upon
further research of the Gray Cowl in the Imperial Library, I discovered a legend
that tells of a curse placed by Nocturnal upon the Cowl, erasing knowledge of
the bearer’s true identity from history and even the memory of those around
them. If my knowledge of daedric princes is right then one way to break a curse
cast by a daedric prince can only be broken with an Elder Scroll. This evidence
suggests that Umbranox was indeed the Gray Fox and that the cowl itself became
sort of a “badge of office” of the Cyrodiil Thieves’ Guildmaster. By donning the
cowl for the first time Umbranox was affected by Nocturnal’s curse and became
unrecognizable by the people he knew. He then infiltrated the Imperial Palace
and stole an Elder Scroll in order to lift that curse. When the curse was lifted
he passed on the Gray Cowl to this Messenger who then became the Gray Fox. Thus
proving that Umbranox was telling the truth when he said, “a Daedra did it.”

## Current Situation

The fate of the Messenger is unknown, we have no trace of who this person was,
but we are sure that he/she became the Gray Fox. Though attaining the Gray Cowl
would bring much prestige to the Synod, it wouldn’t be of much practical use,
and obtaining it would require going up against the Thieves’ Guild, which as
history has shown, would lead to much consequences. I recommend that we turn our
attention to the recovery of Umbranox’s Elder Scroll instead, if this Theory is
true then attaining an Elder Scroll with the power to lift a Daedric Prince’s
curse would be of much use to the Synod. I also recommend that we not pursue the
search for this Gray Cowl as the consequences and cost would be too great.
