---
series: Records on Daedric Artifacts
part: 1
title: Records on Daedric Artifacts, Vol. I
reddit: 1tljra
author: Avian81
date: 2013-12-24T09:41:06Z
hide_series: true
---

*153rd Year of the 4th Era, Marcus Averius, Synod Historian, Synod Artifact*
*Recovery Division*

## Foreword

The following are records on the various Daedric Artifacts that the Synod has
taken an interest on. This document is to be used and viewed only by the
appointed retriever of said Artifact. Note that not all sightings are recent and
some sources on these Artifacts are questionable. It should be taken into
account that one of these Artifacts was destroyed by Martin Septim, during the
Oblivion Crisis in order to obtain the “Blood of a Daedric Prince.” However
which artifact he destroyed was not recorded, the Blades likely have records on
this, but their documents regarding the Oblivion Crisis are still confidential
even after a hundred and fifty years.

## Azura’s Star

### Properties

Azura’s Star is used as a re-usable soul gem, able to carry a Grand Soul. The
star is known to be gifted by Azura to those that have pleased the Daedric
Prince. Known sightings seem to state that the star may randomly vanish only to
reappear as a gift to another worshipper of Azura

### Sightings

If the Charwich-Koniinge Letters are to be believed, the Star vanished at
sometime during 3E 412, however an unnamed biographer who claimed to know the
Nerevarine claims that the Nerevarine performed a service to Azura and was
awarded the star around the year 3E 427. Though there is a more recent claim
that occurred around the end of the Third Era, at a shrine to Azura in the
Jerall Mountains, It states that the star was again rewarded by Azura to an
adventurer who performed an errand for her. The star was claimed several more
times the next century but most claims are unsupported, and unclear.

### Current Situation

It seems likely that the star has once again vanished, though any new sightings
of the Star should be reported to the Synod Artifact Recovery Division. Recovery
of this Item would be highly beneficial in our researches in enchanting, and in
our research on the Daedric Princes. The Risk level for the star however has
been set to Medium, as the tasks of Azura usually come with fighting beasts, or
vampires.

## Goldbrand

### Properties

Goldbrand is a golden katana crafted by the dragons of the North. It is said
that Boethiah gave the blade power, and it can burn those that the sword
strikes. There are rumours that the sword has a more powerful version known as
Eltonbrand, though these rumours are yet to be confirmed.

### Sightings

A few years before the Oblivion Crisis, an unknown pilgrim hired a sculptor to
construct a Shrine of Boethiah on the Bitter Coast Region of Vardenfell, was
given the Goldbrand by Boethiah herself. Another claim that occurred around the
time of the Oblivion Crisis states that Boethiah declared a Tournament of Ten
Bloods in the Realm of Boethiah. The Victor returned to Cyrodiil carrying with
him the Goldbrand. A claim made several months ago states that another
Tournament of Ten Bloods occurred and the Goldbrand was given to the victor, who
now resides in the City of Rihad.

### Current Situation

The recovery team has recovered the Goldbrand from the Champion, it is now under
guard at the Synod’s Treasury room. Boethiah’s Champion however, has been dealt
with. The sword will be presented as a gift to the Prince Titus Mede II from the
Grand Council, once we have finished our research on the swords enchantments.

## Sanguine’s Rose

### Properties

It is widely accepted that Sanguine’s Rose takes the form of a Rose the size of
a staff. It is said to be able to summon Daedra that would attack all except the
one who possesses it. Unlike conjured daedra, the daedra that this staff
conjures are wild and uncontrollable, but powerful nonetheless.

### Sightings

There are records that the late Emperor Martin Septim once held the Rose before
he became a priest, and before the Oblivion Crisis. Though it is unknown how but
a later sighting reports that It was given to a worshipper of Sanguine, who
performed a tasked given by the Daedric Prince. This was the last sighting of
the Staff and it is 150 years old, it’s likely that this staff has withered and
Sanguine has chosen and blessed a new rose in that time. The Risk in getting
this staff is estimated to be low however, as the tasks of Sanguine are usually
petty, yet still vile.

### Current Situation

The Staff has not been seen in over a hundred years a new one has most likely
appeared in that time, but no reports have been given. I recommend that we put
the Recovery priority on this staff as Minimal, the staff itself is consumable
since it withers with time, and would be no benefit to the Grand Council’s
Treasury. The enchantments on the staff although useful, is risky since the
Daedra are uncontrollable and summoning one with conjuration spells would be
safer.

## Ebony Blade

### Properties

The Ebony Blade is a well known katana made of Ebony, it was created by Mephala
for unknown reasons. Reports on what the blade can really do are debatable. Some
Claim that the Blade grows stronger when the wielder betrays someone they know;
other reports claim the blade transfers the life and magicka energy of its
victim to the wielder; and another claim states that the blade increases the
stamina of the wielder and makes them more proficient with bladed weapons. The
wielders of this blade are eventually corrupted by the blade’s evil, and go
insane.

### Sightings

One account during that occurred before The Warp in the West, states that
Mephala sent one of her followers to assassinate a Noble in the Illiac Bay
region, and was rewarded with the Blade. Later around the time of the Oblivion
Crisis, the Blade was given to a follower of Mephala who initated a feud between
two familys; Ulfar and Dalvilu, by murdering the leaders of both families. The
Blade was last seen a week ago being carried by a Travelling Merchant headed
North to Skyrim.

### Current Situation

The Blade is most likely to be in Whiterun Hold in Skyrim, no recovery teams can
be sent as of now. The recovery of this blade will be at mid importance to the
Synod, with a risk factor of high. Since all who wield it eventually go insane,
the recovery team should practice caution when handling the Blade. If found
however the blade will be researched then put under guard in the Grand Council’s
Treasury.

## Volendrung

### Properties

Volendrung was created by the Dwarven Rourken Clan, and became the artifact of
Malacath. It is famous for being the Hammer that the Chieftain of the Rourken
Clan threw to across Tamriel, intending to settle where it lands. They did
settle there and the land is now known famously as Hammerfell. The hammer is
immensely powerful capable of paralyzing it’s foes, and draining their stamina.

### Sightings

For a long time the Volendrung belonged to a Divayth Fyr, a Dunmer Sorceror who
resided at Vvardenfell at the time. Sometime around 3E 427 the hammer
disappeared from Fyr’s possession and would not be seen for a long time. It is
reported that the Nerevarine stole this hammer from him, but we are not sure of
the validity of this claim. Around the time of the Oblivion Crisis, Malacath
sent one of his followers to free Ogre slaves from the Estate of a man called
“Lord Drad”, this follower was later seen wielding the Volendrung. Two months
ago, one of our sources claims that he saw an Orcish Pilgrim headed North
carrying a hammer, fitting perfectly with the description of the Volendrung.

### Current Situation

The Hammer is probably in either High Rock, Skyrim, or Morrowind, as reports
vary. Recovery of the Hammer would be beneficial to our research on ancient
Dwemer craftsmanship. The Hammer is a Symbol of Great Might and claiming it
would prove the Might of the Synod, therefore the search priority for this
Artifact is set to High, and Risk level to Low, as its protectors are probably
just few Orcs.

> > This is basically a summary on the Daedric artifacts; it isn’t complete and
> > idk if I should continue this series on the artifacts, cause I feel lazy to
> > -_-
> >
> > I’m working on a summary for the Mages' Guild questline in Oblivion, but
> > then I realized, I haven’t completed the MG quests yet. Whoops (stupid
> > Vahtacen ruins) Anyway I guess I’ll have to finish that questline first or
> > else my post on that could be half assed.
> >
> > Like this one… I’ll make more quality posts in the future but it’ll take
> > awhile. DyK I worked on the Umbranox and the Blackwood post for a few hours?
> > But this one not so much. If you guys have suggestions on a questline you’d
> > like me to “investigate” feel free to do so!!! :D
> {:tag="small"}
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
