---
title: On Martial Importance in Yokudan and Orcish Culture
reddit: 1u2exv
author: Ushnad_gro-Udnar
date: 2013-12-31T03:46:24Z
about: |
  I have been working on this piece for a while and it seems to be the type that
  I can never be totally happy with. I would like to thank /u/myrrlyn and
  several others for guidance and proofreading. My main goal was to attempt to
  describe how fighting fit into the cultural worldview of the Redguards and
  Orcs as they are the two most martially gifted races on Tamriel. I hope I have
  done so and welcome input in any form. I thank you for your read and hope it
  is an enjoyable one.
---

The Redguards are known across Tamriel for their martial prowess and yet are
surprisingly absent from the ranks of the Imperial Legions. The army of the
Redguards is not nearly as hierarchical as those found elsewhere on Tamriel. The
elite fighters come from religious orders that aid the main body of the army in
times of need. These orders are based on merit, and only highly talented
warriors are able to stay long in these prestigious orders. Most important is
that the orders are monastic in nature. Many Yokudan gods (or their slightly
Imperialized versions) center around martial arts such as the HoonDing and Leki
and so by mastering the myriad swordsmanship styles these monk warriors honor
their gods and themselves. They are called broadly Brothers and Maidens of the
Spirit Blade and are instead remembered as individual heroes rather than for
their specific order or even family. Yokudan history is rife with heroes such
as David and Frandar Hunding or Gaiden Shinji who reached their legendary status
through martial prowess. It is worth noting that the actual technique of the
Spirit Sword or the Shehai, has fallen into obscurity due to the knowledge of
its usage being lost to the ages. The orders still practice strict martial
training and serve as powerful troops in times of duress.

It is expected of every individual that they have at least a minimal command of
weaponry regardless of social rank and this ability is called upon in times of
need as Hammerfell boasts no standing army. This expectation on each person and
the legendary status of certain individuals suggests that fighting in Yokudan
culture lays in the concept of the individual itself. It does not serve the
group but the individual. It bestows riches and honors on a specific person, not
their clan or family and is only stressed in a communitarian sense when the
survival of the Yokudan people is in peril such as the Thalmor invasion and
other large scale wars. Some family bonds are seen but these are too individuals
within the family, not a removed sense of clan or tribe. This is further shown
in the fighting style of the Yokudan warriors who could best be described as
skirmishers. Lightly armored, quick of feet and armed with knowledge of
hundreds of fighting styles and weapons that favor finesse and skill they favor
a more escapist type of fighting; the saying “Float like a butterfly sting like
a bee” certainly applies here. This is due to the importance of the individual.
It is something important, sacred even and so it must be maintained and
protected.

The Pariah Folk of the Wrothgarian Mountains are often looked down upon by other
races as barbaric pig people who have no capacity for the higher arts or
culture. While this may be true for some, the average Orc is more than capable
of the same levels of intellectual achievement as an Altmeri noble, they just
choose not too. The Orcs relish in the chaos of the fight more than most if not
all of the other races that inhabit Tamriel. To them it is more than a fight, it
is a test, it is a chance to prove their mettle and most importantly it is a
chance to defend or aid their tribe. The Orcs live in small to medium sized
tribes and this tribe is the be all and end all to their very existence. A
single Orc lives and dies with their tribe and there is no higher honor than to
fight and even die in service to the tribe. Whether it be defending the tribe or
out plundering for supplies, fighting has a distinctly communitarian motivation
to it. The Orc identifies themselves with their tribe, it is a single organism
that works as one. And one can aid that organism greatest through fighting.

Honor is something that is also prevalent in Orc culture. But this honor is
outsourced to the tribe. It is not the individual Orc who gains honor or loses
it, but rather the tribe that they had raised such a warrior or failed to. This
is evidenced not only by the lack of Orcish heroes despite the fact that there
have undoubtedly been countless heroic Orc warriors, but also by the behavior of
individuals today. Old Orcs are known to leave their tribe in order to seek
death had it not come to them on the battle field and to not live beyond their
usefulness. The individual Orc does not matter, but only what he or she can do
for the tribe. So when one becomes elderly and can no longer “carry their own
weight” they must die as they are a drain on the tribe. This lack of care for
the individual is also manifested in the way in which the Orcs fight. An Orc is
known to charge head first into battle with as large a weapon as they can swing
in order to do maximum damage at the expense of the survival of the attacker.
Lastly it is even shown in the religion of the Orcish people. They see
themselves as the Pariah Folk led by their King of the Scorned in Malacath. They
are not cast out that have come together but rather an entire people who have
been expelled. A solitary group that has been singled out, the weight is on the
collective, not the individual.
