---
title: The Time Gods of Imperial Faith
reddit: 1u73qz
author: TESJaxt
date: 2014-01-02T01:44:18Z
about: |
  This was originally supposed to be my contribution to this week’s theme of
  “Time”, a text on Arkay’s role as a time god that is suggested by Varieties of
  Faith, but it doesn’t really focus on that aspect anymore. I hope you will
  find it enjoyable anyway; thanks for reading!
---

Akatosh is the God of Time. Despite that, it is not the prayers to the Dragon
that contain the Cyrodils’ thanks for each moment or the passage of time or the
seasons. The Dragon God is invoked by both Nibenese and Colovians as “Father
Akatosh”, “whose Perch from Eternity allowed the Day”, the Fountain of the
World, the Father of Men, the Giver of Time, Turner of the Wheel, King of the
Sun, Lord at the Center, and King of Heaven, Lord Aetherius, King of the Mundus
and King of Kings. His aspect of Everlasting Legitimacy, granting the Ruby
Throne and the Mandate of the Sun to worthy rulers, is more important than his
wider sphere of Time.

Arkay, on the other hand, is worshipped as the God of the Cycle of Life and
Death, Ruler of the Seasons, and Lord of all other natural cycles, which I will
not list here. He is thanked for not only the turn of the seasons, but also for
every moment and, more importantly, every moment’s contents. As the Mortal’s
God, he is prayed to for purpose and fulfillment and is said to be the driving
force behind mortals’ enjoyment of each moment and the "Giver of all Happy
Hours”. Arkay is the God of Birth,  without whom there is “neither breath nor
beginning, nor can any man live, love, or learn without the spark of \[his]
spirit”.

As my fellow sholars will no doubt have noticed, Arkay as envisioned in Cyrodiil
resembles the “Spirit of the Now”, Y’ffre of Valenwood, as well as Shezzar in
his mantle of “Spirit of Men”. He has also taken up many aspects of his Father’s
sphere of time. Perhaps the Spirit who takes up the Eye of the Thief would like
to possess these mantles in addition to his own?

> *The author, a member of the IGS, penned this text in one evening and was*
> *smothered by moths the same night. For this reason, only one copy of it*
> *exists in all of Cyrod, which my source acquired for me among other*
> *documents. I wanted to share this curious find with you.*
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
