---
title: Chim-El Adabal, King and Saviour of Cyrod
reddit: 1u7abu
author: TESJaxt
date: 2014-01-02T03:04:42Z
---

The Amulet of Kings, with its Oversoul of Dragonblooded Emperors[^1], was not a
soulgem by any stretch of the word. Although Ada-bal, literally spirit-stone,
was and is misinterpreted to mean that by many scholars, even in the highest
echelons of the imperial priesthood, Adabal does not denote the Amulet’s origin
as a powerful soulgemlike device, but rather refers to the fact that Chim-El,
the Kings’ Soul, is the Ada ei Bal, the Spirit as Stone. The name can also be
translated as Star(light)-Made Spiritstone, i.e. either Adabal made by or of
Starlight/Stars. Or _both_.

Chimel[^2] was a Lesser Ada, akin to Morihaus, Pelinal, the Dragons and the
Lesser Daedra, though among those only the Demi-Princes were comparable to it in
power. Its closest kin was perhaps Pelinal, since he, too, was artificial.

The origin of this spirit is shrouded in myth. I wish to outline two possible
origins:

1. It may have been given to Alessia by Pelinal. This would mean that it
   originated in his time and was made by the same source.
1. It could also have been a device of the Ayleiids. Its status as Stone and
   “remote control” of White Gold Tower suggests as much, and it is claimed to
   house the spirits of Ayleiid Kings. But at the same time, Alessia is claimed
   to be the “first gem in the Amulet of Kings”. Therefore its origin is up for
   debate.

The Gem housed the souls of dead emperors, which formed an oversoul akin to that
of other spirits. This Oversoul became a being in its own right, the gem serving
as a body. Chimel was able to communicate with its wielder and others, the
individual emperors speaking alone or in concert. It was also able to grant
those who wielded it visions of the future or the past, or show them its
memories, memories from the lifes of dead emperors _and_ memories of its own.
The abilities of the Dragonblooded were all derived from the power of the
Amulet. The Emperors were able to tap into its power at will[^3] and thereby had
access to all the knowledge and power of all prior emperors, and their draconic
divine strenght granted by Akatosh. Examples of this were the Voice of the
Emperor, which was able to break the wills of mortals by heavenly mandate, the
fiery tongue(the ability to speak any language), and even the power to take on
Dragon form. The Amulet, when acting, shines blood red. Those exposed to its Red
Radiance cannot help but see its wearer as a dragon. The Reman emperors are said
to have used the Amulet constantly, to the point of Chimel taking over their
bodies at times[^4]. One of the Underkings greatest offenses against the Septim
line, though his least known, was to limit the ability of the Amulet to merge
with its wearer. Only those emperors who had studied the mystic teachings of
Alessia about the Dragon were able to tap into its power fully. Uriel Septim was
not among them.

Despite that, Chimel ruled Cyrodil just as much as the living Emperors did,
since they sought its counsel and shared their every thougth with it.

But even Chimel, strongest of the living Ada on Mundus, was not able to defeat
Mehrunes Dagon when he entered Mundus with his full strenght. In a desperate
move, it gave itself to Mundus as the other Aedra had, and for one moment
wielded the all the power of Nirn’s special divinity. With this penultimate
might it banished Dagon and Dagon’s forces. It then became an Earthbone, like so
many other spirits during Creation. The barrier of Nirn is now forever
configured the way it was once by White Gold when the Dragonfires burned, and
the Daedra’s influence is greatly diminished. Thus, Chimel has become the
holiest of the Earthbones, and many cults worshipping it have sprung up in
Nibenay. But the majority of the people of Tamriel misattribute the deeds of our
Saviour to Akatosh, and although it is trough that Chimel’s power is ultimately
derived from it, not thanking it, that have its life so we could live, is
ungrateful indeed.

I would ask you to reconsider your ways, and give praise to our Saviour, ChimEl
Adabal. And perhaps it will stirr in its sleep, and grant you its blessing.

This theory challanges the interpretation that Aka’s Avatar saved the day at the
end of Oblivion’s Main Quest. Since I like the ironic twist I find in that
interpretation that divine intervention is the worst thing possible and Aka
taking the Emperors at their word, and their souls as well, I am not sure if I
like the theory. But I wanted to share it. Make of it what you will.

I just noticed that the part on the origin is somewhat ooc, sorry for that.

[^1]: And, perhaps, Dragonblooded Ayleiid Kings?
[^2]: Note the naming scheme: Anu-i-el, Soul of Anu; Auri-El, Soul of the Soul
  of Anu. Both Spirits and Kings.
[^3]: Compare the [avatar state][0] from the “Avatar the Last Airbender”
  cartoon.
[^4]: This explains Reman’s, er, pecularities as detailed in the Shonni Etta.
  Chimel had much in common with Pelinal. In fact, I doubt that _any_ spirit can
  be sane at all.

[0]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&v=rWGMCV0lAZg#t=183
