---
title: A Dissertation on the Varieties of Protection Spells
subtitle: by Arsyn Thireloth
reddit: 1uj07c
author: Asotil
date: 2014-01-06T08:56:37Z
---

4E 299

Protection spells are among the most commonly used spells of today. Even the
most thick-headed apprentice knows at least some basic Warding skills. The need
for the two kinds of spells is obvious. Tamriel is a place of many perils, and
all too often skills taken for granted make a large difference in life-or-death
situations. With this in mind, this paper discusses the origins of modern
protection spells.

For the purpose of this paper, protection spells will be classified into
Ward-type spells and Armor-type spells. Ward-type spells block direct damage,
particularly from magical attacks such as Destruction spells. Armor-type spells,
on the other hand, do not prevent damage but reduce damage taken. This is done
by altering the toughness of the caster’s skin, increasing it to varying degrees
(depending on the spell’s strength) so as to better withstand sustained damage.
Ward-types belong to the School of Restoration, while Armor-types belong to the
School of Alteration.

Ward-type spells and Armor-type spells, despite belonging to different Schools,
share similarities in that they are designed to protect the user from harm. This
brings us to the main subject of this dissertation. Ward-type spells and
Armor-type spells share a common lineage in Shield-type spells, spells which
were used two hundred years ago.

The usage of Shield-type spells dates back to the Merethic Era; Aldmeri scrolls
describe the usage of spells which “hardened the body like steel”. Vanus
Galerion, who created the different Schools of Magic, classified Shield-type
spells firmly into the Alteration category. Galerion himself developed various
Shield-type spells, most of which are still in use today. Early Shield-type
spells were vastly inferior to Shield-type spells in use today, lasting half as
long and offering inferior protection.

A subclass of Shield-type spells was the Elemental Shield-type, which offered
protection from the different elements. Ironically, despite their notorious
mutual hatred for each other, Vanus Galerion had to draw upon the Worm King
Mannimarco’s research to create Elemental Shield-type spells that were available
to the general magic community. Indeed, Mannimarco’s experience with Elemental
Shield spells was truly impressive, so much so that some researchers suggest
that he used a “Resist Death” spell to attain lichdom. This theory, however, has
been thoroughly discredited.

It is clear to see how the Elemental Shield subclass influenced Ward-type
spells. Ward-type spells are used by mages mainly to block elemental assaults.
However, Ward-type spells have more in common with the Reflect-type spells from
the now defunct Mysticism schools.

Shalidor is credited as the father of Reflect-type spells. His research bore
wondrous fruit in the form of Shalidor’s Mirror. Many of his principles on
Reflect-type spells are used today as the backbone for Ward-type spells and Ward
research. Although Ward-type spells merely block magical damage, Reflect-types
did more than that; they redirected the offensive spell’s flow back to the
caster.

The effect of Reflect-type spells raises a question; why are they not in use
today? Reflect-type spells only had a chance of reflecting offensive spells, and
many a caster unaware of this was burnt to a crisp. At the height of their
usage, the Arcane University was towing upwards of two thousand corpses every
month to the Imperial City’s graveyards. Wards, although inferior in effect,
provide a much higher degree of reliability.

As to how Ward spells proper were invented; well, that is an easy matter to
settle. Circa 4E 16, a team of researchers at the Arcane University began
research on the effects of Reflect-type spells and Elemental Shield-type spells.
Research of this nature is nothing new; the different Schools of Magic are
artificial constructs, and such overlap with one another. Twenty-four long years
of hard work, slowed significantly by the squabbling and political intrigues
between the Synod and the College of Whispers, resulted in what we know now as
the modern Ward.

With the Elemental Shield-type spells and the Reflect-type spells now rendered
obsolete, as well as the dissolution of the Mysticism school, massive changes
were inevitable. These changes peaked at the Convention of Mages at the Arcane
University. The Convention established two major changes in spellcraft. The
Shield-type spells were to be reclassified as Armor-type spells, now wholly
separate from the new Ward-type spells but otherwise unchanged. The Ward-type
spells, after much debate, were deemed most at home in the Restoration school,
where they remain to this day.

And thus concludes this dissertation on the numerous forms of Protection spells.
Hopefully this has provided some insight. Protection spells have served mages
for centuries now, and are likely to do so in the coming centuries.
