---
title: "Cities of the Starry Heart: Rihad"
subtitle: by Casimar the Wayfarer
reddit: 1uk94u
author: The_OP3RaT0R
date: 2014-01-06T20:10:57Z
about: |
  [This][0] is what I went off of for describing Rihad in detail, a drawing from
  the Tamriel Rebuilt project, as it’s pretty much the best guess as to what it
  looks like at the moment. The cultural stuff is just what the UESP says and
  some speculation. Anyway, this is my (first) submission for the theme of
  Cities (and more may follow).

  [0]: https://media.moddb.com/images/mods/1/8/7086/41769.jpg
---

Rihad, port city of the Abecean Sea laying near the Hammerfell-Cyrodiil border,
comprised of an eclectic group of inhabitants mostly from across west and
central Tamriel, though the many demographics of the city certainly are not
limited to such origins. While I may be preferential to the ancient buildings as
among the greatest attractions, I will also deliver a description of the
cosmopolitan people, splendid culture, and mild climate. Here, I will take you,
dear reader, on a journey west.

While it is not the easternmost city to be found in Hammerfell, Rihad is easily
the most inviting. Its siblings further east, Dragonstar and Elinhir, are not
nearly as accessible, being situated in the mountains along the borders with
Skyrim and Cyrodiil; add that to the tense atmosphere of divided Dragonstar and
the relative detachment of Elinhir, and Rihad becomes instantly appealing. Rihad
lies amongst the rolling hills of the Goldmoor region, with its climate a
pleasant mix of the Gold Coast and Colovian Highlands, tied together with the
warmth of the west. It is an important port for Hammerfell, as it is closer to
the rest of the world than shipping competitors such as Sentinel and Hegathe.

And a city very much of the world it is! Wares and people pass through from
every corner of the continent, and Rihad is just as much a gateway to the west
as it is a lifeline for Hammerfell.

Arrive at the gates of Rihad on the road from Anvil, and you’re greeted by walls
of weathered white stone, flanked in the distance by farmland amidst the hills.
The walls are high, but you can see a few landmarks on the skyline; the great
dome of the temple and the towering flame of the lighthouse (which is more of a
gigantic torch) accompanied by a few of the larger ships’ masts. The
architecture of Rihad truly is beautiful; on my first visit, I was impressed by
the gilded domes and dew sails that adorn just about every building – it’s also
worth mentioning that these features are effective methods of combating the
southern Hammerfell heat, the dew sails collecting water that is used to keep
cool and the domes helping indoor spaces to breathe. Something else uniquely
Rihadan is the presence of unique mosaic colophons on most structures. As we
know, a colophon is a publisher’s mark, but in this sense it is an architectural
feature – something like a crest carved in stone, but far more intricate and
with a deeper story to tell. Some are even magical runes, made to ward off evil
spirits.

As I mentioned, Rihad is a place that boasts a very diverse culture and
population. Being a port and hub of trade, it manages to reach all around our
continent and draw in people from the farthest corners of Tamriel (including
myself, a Dunmer of Morrowind). However, my kin are certainly the minority; the
most established of groups is that of the Redguard Forebears, first to arrive in
Hammerfell and a fixture ever since. Tied for the second largest minorities are
Redguard followers of Sakatal – though admittedly, many of these people are
nomads, and it is only a steady cycle of them that keeps their numbers high –
and former denizens of High Rock, often Bretons. Rihad also has a fine tradition
of warriors, and many are drawn in to train. The city is a melting pot, and the
constant flow of shipping through its harbor coupled with a long-standing
Imperial bias has led to an atmosphere of vibrancy and life.

Now, dear reader, you may now expect me to list a few highlights of the city as
I normally would, taverns or attractions that cannot be missed; but I have grown
to love this city so, it has taken such a special place in my heart, that to do
that would be to lay bare the gems that can only found through the process of
getting to know the city of Rihad. I urge you, take a carriage or a boat to
Rihad, and find, as I have, that the greatest gems are those that one unearths
oneself.

Merry travels!
