---
title: Jyggalag
subtitle: The Prince Everyone Hates
reddit: 1umccx
author: Avian81
date: 2014-01-07T12:49:33Z
---

So we all know that every daedric princes had a hate for Jyggalag, because he
was said to be the most powerful of the them all. Now I don’t think that his
“power” was the only thing that made the other Daedric Princes hate Jyggalag. If
we think about it being the Daedric Prince of Order will probably step on the
toes of the other powerful Princes. Here are my reasons on why each of the
Princes have a hatred for Jyggalag, and why Jyggalag would hate them back. We
are not sure exactly when Jyggalag was cursed to be Sheogorath, but it was
during the Dawn Era and I’m guessing it was before Trinimac became Malacath, and
sometime after the races became evident from each other.

## Azura

Azura is the Goddess of Twilight, there’s nothing wrong there until you think of
how she is the god-ancestor of the Chimer. The Chimer abandoned the old ways of
the Summerset Isles, and formed a new culture in Morrowind. Having more cultures
and abandoning old ones doesn’t seem to orderly. So probably Jyggalag didn’t
like this happening and invaded the Moonshadow with his Knights of Order at one
point, making him and Azura mad at each other. Well Azura doesn’t really have a
strong reason to hate Jyggalag the way I see it.

## Boethiah

Deceit, conspiracy, secret plots of murder, assassination, treason, and unlawful
overthrow of authority, all of that has to do with the Prince of Plots. And
obviously none of those are good for Order, seeing as Boethiah and Jyggalag have
a lot of differences they probably hate each other and had some unheard battles
in Oblivion.

## Clavicus Vile

He grants power to those who do his bidding. His biddings can sometimes be
chaotic and if a lot of people have power, that would mean a lot of people will
be more bold and feel like they can take on everyone. So I don’t think order
would like that very much.

## Hermaeus Mora

Prince of Knowledge, Memory, and even Fate. Nothing sounds wrong with that
right? Wrong. You see back in his day Jyggalag had a Great Library that used
logic to predict every possible outcome that there could be, so it potentially
contains all knowledge, forbidden, known, unknown, things that happened, and
things that will, all through logical predictions. And Hermaeus Mora as we all
know likes knowledge as well. His realm Apocrypha is where all the forbidden
knowledge is contained, can only be rivaled by that of Jyggalag’s Great Library,
and it could probably have contained more than what Hermaeus Mora did. Their
rivalry would probably be more out of Jealousy rather than that of anything
else.

## Hircine

The Prince of Manbeasts, and the Hunt. He created diseases that turns people to
manbeasts, and most communities of manbeasts are anarchistic, or backward
thinking. This will obviously upset a more Orderly society.

## Mehrunes Dagon

Daedric Prince of Destruction, Change, Revolution, Energy, and Ambition.
Emphasis on all that. None of those are things that would agree with the sphere
of order. Revolution, could be chaotic at times and Change will be bad for an
orderly routine, or an orderly nation. Mehrunes Dagon and Jyggalag were probably
the ~~best of friends~~ worst enemies back then. It is possible before Jyggalag
was cursed, and before Mehrunes Dagon liked to mess with the people of Nirn,
these two had multiple wars within their realms. Only to result in the cursing
of Jyggalag by an alliance of every other Daedric Prince.

## Mephala

Prince of Lies, Sex, and Murder, she is known as the webspinner and is also a
sibling of Hermaeus Mora. Well Lies and Murder are against the orderly and
lawful sphere of Jyggalag, but what I assume why Mephala is against Jyggalag is
because of her sibling Hermaeus Mora.

## Molag Bal

Prince of Domination, and Enslavement of Mortals. His main goal is to harvest
souls by spreading discord and strife throughout the land. The fact that discord
is his means to an end, and a lot of discord might I add, would probably piss
off Jyggalag. Did they have wars in their Realms of Oblivion? Most likely.

## Namira

The Lady of Decay, and Prince of Ancient Darkness. Well the reasons for Namira
to be mad at Jyggalag vis-a-vis, is really weak. The only reason I can think of
is that in the Book the Beggar Prince, Namira is shown to have a fondness to
Beggars. And beggars are disorderly. Really weak argument on this one.

## Nocturnal

Another one with a weak argument here folks. The only way I think Jyggalag can
be mad at Nocturnal is because she supports thieves. And thieves break laws, and
laws inspire order.

## Peryite

The Taskmaster, Prince of disease and pestilence. Diseases/blights/plagues are
known to cause fear to the population, and would indirectly cause disorder. But
other than that, Peryite is also the weakest Daedric Prince, while Jyggalag is
the strongest. If Jyggalag conquered Peryite’s realm it would probably be easy
pickings. My guess is Jyggalag invaded the Pits taking advantage of Peryite’s
weakness.

## Sanguine

Prince of Debauchery, everyone loves this guy! Except for Jyggalag who wouldn’t
like seeing people being merry, drunk, and acting stupid. And Sanguine probably
wouldn’t like Jyggalag for his “orderliness” (Order FunDIE)

## Vaermina

Prince of Nightmares. The fact that she can play around in the heads of Mortals,
causing them to do unspeakable things and messing with entire cities sounds
pretty disorderly to me.

> > I didn’t forget anyone did I? If anyone says I forgot Sheogorath, then
> > you’re a …
> {:tag="small"}
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
