---
title: |
  Journal of the Repair of the Altmer Refugee District of Sentinel, Post-Night
  of Green Fire
reddit: 1upi56
author: The_OP3RaT0R
date: 2014-01-08T13:19:45Z
about: |
  This is another post related to cities, although somewhat more loosely than my
  last. If there’s anything I can do to improve it, let me know. I may write a
  follow-up, more related to guild politics.
---

## Excerpts from the Journal of Marron, Craftsman and Builder in Sentinel

> *12th Second Seed, 4E 42*
>
> Not much to write of lately – not that I could have written anyway, since my
> last journal was soiled in a mud puddle. Little work as of late; Da would say
> I’m just too stubborn and not willing to settle for what’s offered, but a few
> pieces of furniture and some barrels aren’t what I’m looking to make my
> fortune off of. Maybe he would have a point, were he here, because obviously a
> company as new as mine is going to be shut out of every contract that would
> otherwise make my career. It’s all about connections, it would seem, and the
> Guild will have nothing to do with me.
{:.handwriting}

----

> *17th Second Seed, 4E 42*
>
> I admit that I caved and took a few small jobs this week, but I may have
> spoken too soon on those. I may have found an opportunity. Two nights ago,
> fire broke out in the refugee quarter – word is that it was the doing of
> Thalmor agents, and I’m inclined to believe that. I could see it a little from
> my window here at the boardinghouse, and that fire certainly wasn’t the type
> you get when you rub two sticks together. And there’s the obvious fact that
> many of the refugees were torched alive. A shame, yes, but the ones that did
> survive are determined to rebuild, and I was lucky enough to be presented with
> an opportunity to insert myself among those who survived; yesterday, while
> having a look around the ruins, I ran into a High Elf who seems especially up
> in arms about the slaughter. Name’s Fasendil, and he doesn’t even live here in
> Sentinel – mer’s a Legate, on leave, and he was looking for a few relatives
> when the Thalmor attacked. He’s the son of a couple of merchants in Cyrodiil
> who apparently did pretty well for themselves over the years and are now
> interested in funding the reconstruction of the district, new, improved, and
> more permanent than any old refugee district. And, here’s the kicker, after he
> saw me looking around closely he asked if I knew a thing or two about
> construction. So, I bought him a drink, and by the evening he promised he’d
> get a letter home asking for the funds for me to rebuild.
{:.handwriting}

----

> *19th Second Seed, 4E 42*
>
> I’ve been hiring men like crazy at the promise of this job; Marron’s
> Construction and Crafting has grown from eight men total to twenty-three, and
> we’re already blazing through the work of clearing the burnt remains of the
> refugee district. Unfortunately, I’ve had to put up the displaced Altmer out
> of my own stores of coin, but if Fasendil’s folks deliver, the money will be
> no problem. Fasendil and a few of the others have also suggested that we go a
> little beyond simple renovation; they expressed a desire to possibly add a
> small general store, as well as a tavern of their own, and they’re willing to
> chip in on the effort. If they have the coin, I’ll build them their own keep.
> I began drafting the new structures, though some details will depend on the
> budget.
{:.handwriting}

----

> *22nd Second Seed, 4E 42*
>
> Well, Marron’s Construction and Crafting is down to seventeen men; six didn’t
> care for the lack of immediate work after the rubble was cleared. Apparently
> they don’t understand that building materials and the money to pay for them
> doesn’t spring up out of nowhere. Nonetheless, I’m sure that vacuum will fill
> up as soon as the coin comes in, which Fasendil assures me it will. I’ve got
> bigger problems anyway, from what I hear whispered around the tavern;
> naturally, the Guild doesn’t care for a non-sanctioned builder taking a
> non-sanctioned contract.
{:.handwriting}

----

> *23rd Second Seed, 4E 42*
>
> The money came through! Enough to ensure that the district not only is
> rebuilt, but is improved; finally, a chance to get my work out there! I was
> able to hire many more workers, and I now have 45 men at my disposal. I put in
> orders for maybe seven tons of bricks, a couple tons of imported cedar, and
> even high quality glass, with the help of a few other refugees – it turns out
> that the only reason some of those elves lived in that district was because no
> one else would have them or their bags of money. Some of the foundations of
> the old buildings are still good, but most are going to need to be replaced,
> so I’ve ordered a good deal of concrete, and the men are beginning to remove
> the old.
{:.handwriting}

----

> *25th Second Seed, 4E 42*
>
> I finally received notice from the Carpenters’ Guild to either abandon the job
> or be visited by Guild reps; about time, I guess, because the sooner I can get
> this fight over with the better. With luck, some spear-waving and throwing
> around coin will keep them off my arse. I just hope they don’t bring in the
> Utei’s brother. Then I’ll have a real fight on my hands. I’ll be hiring mercs
> tomorrow, that’s for sure.
>
> In better news, foundation removal is going well, and a couple were poured
> today; we’ve also received the first shipments of wood and brick. Frames are
> going up, and it won’t be long before we’re making real progress.
{:.handwriting}

----

> *9th Midyear, 4E 42*
>
> Nearly all of the frames are up, and all foundations are done, but the Guild
> has been pestering us like flies. First, it was reps showing up and pulling
> myself and my foremen away from the work, then it was sending thugs to try and
> disrupt things. It’s quite something that we’ve even gotten as far as we have,
> but I worry what’s in store. Fasendil volunteered to help with protecting the
> work site; I told him he’s done enough by getting the money for the project,
> but it’s personal for him. I’ve come to like the guy, and don’t want him in
> harm’s way, but the deterrent of Imperial support – or what looks like it –
> can’t hurt.
{:.handwriting}

----

> *15th Midyear, 4E 42*
>
> Gods damn it, they brought the Utei’s brother into the matter! Bastards had a
> couple of guards drag me out of my room in the evening, and brought me before
> some Guild leaders and the royal-for-hire – caution be damned, they brought in
> Fasendil too! Asked us nicely to transfer control of the job over to a
> Guild-approved contractor, pay the tribute we would have paid if we’d been
> Guild-approved at the start, then let us go.
>
> So Fasendil and I part ways, after getting piss-drunk, and the next day, we
> discuss how we can step up our fight. We decided that I’d keep on all the
> non-mason workmen and he’d turn them into a “Legion unit” with some spare
> uniforms. If the Guild tries to disrupt any further, we’ve got maybe thirty
> men to stand in their way, and the threat of political repercussions
> (something that Fasendil believes he can make a reality, if necessary.)
> Nothing unusual happened today; the masons have started work and are moving at
> a good pace.
{:.handwriting}
