---
title: A Discussion on Tamrielic Politics
reddit: 1upmqv
author: Fur-PaintCollective
date: 2014-01-08T14:34:26Z
---

Camped out near Kvatch, Anaril and Jo’bado decide to talk again.

Jo’Bado: *“So, why do you care so much about politics anyway?”*

Anaril: “I’m not sure myself. It’s interesting, it can make people become kings,
it can take you anywhere really. I’ve just understood it best, so it’s become
part of my life; some students still haven’t chosen a path in their life, if
anything I’m lucky.”

*“You chose this life because you had nothing else to do?”*

“No, I chose it because it interested me; and supposedly I’m good with the
subject, so here I am. And I’m happy with it too, it’s taken me to other nations
and peoples, some better than others.”

*“There is a story behind that remark”*

“It’s the damn Orcs. Think about them, they’re savage beasts that just nearly
constitute being considered a race. **Just**. And it’s only by the number of
them and the occasional one having enough understanding of literacy to create an
“Orsinium”. But that’s not just it, I went to High Rock myself and they were
like a pest infection. Which is the problem right there: the Bretons, who
believe themselves to be a little more advanced from their mer background, can’t
even properly deal with them! I guarantee you a Nord could beat them down hard
enough or an Imperial could work their way around having the advantage, but
Bretons can’t? That’s a failure of not just the state, but of the man or woman
controlling it too.”

“Hammerfell’s no better either, you know. They’ve got the same problem and they
can’t control it either. I heard the Redguards only came here because they
utterly destroyed their homeland themselves and killed every Mer on there due to
it; and they can’t even finish off the Orcs? Either that story is pure myth or
they’ve gone soft.”

*“Can you truly judge the Redguards if you have never been to their home?”*

“I don’t care, I know the Orcs; we’ve dealt with Goblins back in Summurset, the
Orcs would be no different. The Nords are tougher on them, that’s why you see
less; and yes, I went to Skyrim too. Briefly. Skyrim was interesting to say the
least. I was treated as poorly by most as you’d imagine, but my eyes were
opened. They’re not as dumb as you’d think. Well, the more “common” folk seemed
to be, but they’ve got a working system and the resources to back it up. I’d
never seen a man yell a wall down before though, that was a bit worrying.”

*“I suppose you’ve heard all about Morrowind too then”*

“Eh. I’ve heard things about it, though I don’t particularly care. I was given a
copy of one of their self-proclaimed gods’ books. Didn’t understand a damn
thing. I don’t care to try again either, they left Alinor for a good reason; I
don’t think they’d be welcomed back. I wouldn’t, at least. I’ve had a few
encounters with them. The womer were all eccentrically pormiscuous and the men
were either bloodthirsty or seemed to be clouded in snobbery. True, we can be a
very… confident and self-endorsing people, but it’s as if they come out of the
womb with a frown. One Dunmer was alright, he said the “he-laa-loo” were usually
more welcoming. He was right too, he’s the only one I didn’t wind up either
hating or paying to leave.

5 great houses. Pff. I suppose they’re alright at what they do. The 5 somewhat
decent houses of Morrowind. Doesn’t sound as good, but it’s the truth. What?
You’re looking at me in some way. I don’t know what cats look like when they
think something, so you’ll have to tell me”

*“I’m waiting for you to reach Valenwood or Elsweyr”*

“Oh them? I don’t know much about them. Well, I know some things about
Valenwood. That’s not for me either. Not the politics, but the culture. All that
meat and wood. It’s as though they have a taste but no palate. For being people
all about “now” they seem a bit backward. I had that “Rotmeth” drink once. Once
is enough. And I couldn’t look at them much either, not because of the height
either; I can’t help staring into their black eyes. It’s eery yet it draws you
in. And so many of the males were beast like. Not beast like as in like your
people, but as in actually beasts; like one of the womer and an Orc got
together. If taking mannish wives is what made the womer look better, they
should’ve done it more often; or maybe that’s what the problem was ha HA!

They’re not bad, I suppose. The ones I’ve met were all pleasant, but Valenwood
just isn’t for me. Alinor is my home, it’s just how it is. If I had to move, I
suppose I could go to another place, but it wouldn’t be Valenwood.”

*“What of Elsweyr?”*

“I’m not sure. Speaking of which, we don’t get much information about your
people. I mean, sure we get the whole “oh some cats stole whatever I had” but
nothing that’s really *from* or about Elsweyr. You can get any book you like on
Cyrodiil or Morrowind or High Rock but Elsweyr? haven’t read one book on it. If
I believed the anecdotes, you’d be a country of thieves, but no nation can be
built on that.”

*“Good to hear rationalism is not exempt from the fanciful. Elsweyr is not*
*quite like other lands. Well, it’s a little similar to Cyrodiil, but not*
*quite. There are Kings and Queens. But there are also clan leaders, who*
*sometimes give themselves names; and sometimes are more important. But there*
*is also the Mane. But there is also the Emperor, but no one takes him too*
*seriously. The Cyrods don’t fully understand us, only parts of us, so they can*
*never truly change us. Not all Khajiit. But there is also Anequina and*
*Pelletine; and their cultures change some things, but not everything. And*
*sometimes the gods change things too. Many examples are different. There are*
*many reasons why, sometimes it’s the leaders or the culture or the faith or*
*the land. You would understand Rimmen though, it has always tried to be*
*different. They try to be independant from it all, from Anequina, from the*
*Empire, from the Mane. But their excuse for going to the Empire is to be*
*different from Anequina; and acting Ne’ Quinniit for being different from*
*Imperials. The Mane doesn’t meddle in their affairs. Truly, you are lucky if*
*he comes to you, for others always come to him first instead. He does not have*
*to. The Riddle-T’har does what it does well, so there is no need.”*

“How in Oblivion does any of that work?”

*“It just does. If you wish to know more, you must live it. Words cannot*
*capture it all, you could not make one live their life through words; neither*
*can you experience a people through just what is heard.”*

“That’s not too bad. What do you know of Argonia?”

*“Not much, it is not for me to worry about”*

“It’s what the Dunmer got right if you ask me. See, they had a problem with the
Argonians and what happens? They keep some kind of peace between the two nations
**and** even go so far as to use some to work for them. Simple as that, but can
the Bretons do that? No. A hundred city-states but not one of them can outsmart
an **ORC? IT’S AN EMBARASSMENT**. Vehk them. Wouldn’t go back there either.
Forget it, I’m going to sleep.”
