---
series: Through Eastern Eyes
part: 1
title: The End and What Came After
reddit: 1uyeid
author: Blackfyre87
date: 2014-01-11T12:00:04Z
---

Penned by Rivalen Mothril, knight, East Empire Company.

## 4E 5 – The Red Year Falls

This volume can begin nowhere but the Red Year. This is because the Shadow of
the Red Year hangs over Tamriel to this day and hangs over a great many of the
events covered in this work. In the eyes of many people of Tamriel, it was a
tragic event. Alternatively, ask many of those who experienced or whose families
experienced enslavement in Morrowind, especially the Khajit and Argonians, and
they would tell it as little less than an epic, deserved tale of poetic justice
written in blood, ash and the fire of the gods. To the Dunmer, it may be the
single greatest moment of anguish in history.

The Fourth Era began with Morrowind bereft of heroes. The Tribunal were laid
low, the Nerevarine had departed, and Saint Jiub the Eradicator was dead.
Nonetheless, before 4E 5, Morrowind was an economic powerhouse with a quite
capable military. Vast plantations grew crops that exported across Tamriel.
Great cities bustled with commerce. Mines brought forth cargoes of precious
ebony that must have had values that can only be reasonably estimated in figures
beginning in multiple billions of Septims. Although this prosperity was lessened
by the Oblivion crisis, Morrowind had suffered less than other provinces and
could certainly recover its strength.

Yet after the events of 4E 5 and its aftermath, it was an ash choked, war torn
wasteland. There are tomes on the subject for anyone with an in depth interest.
Suffice to say that a vast volcanic eruption occurred in the Red Mountain after
the Ministry of Truth crashed into Vivec City. Why the ministry fell is a matter
that is hotly debated. Emperor Attrebus I cryptically stated several times to
multiple witnesses that he had personal knowledge of why it happened, but never
gave any further elaboration than “love”, on the reason of the ministry’s
collapse. The theorems of Lathenil of Sunhold have been discussed inside out in
every bar and bawdyhouse in the Imperial City. The important thing is that the
ministry *did* fall and very likely caused the eruption of Vvardenfell.

## 4E 5-6  – The Rains of the Marshes

The tragedy stemming from the eruption of Vvardenfell had been bad; what
followed could only be described as a great deal worse. Within days, a massive
Argonian Invasion occurred. Ultimately this resulted in the loss of Morrowind’s
southern marches (centred on the great city of Tear), the sack of Mournhold and
the isolation of Argonia and these annexed territories, as the An-Xileel were
uninterested in contact with the rest of Tamriel. House Redoran ultimately
repelled the Argonians from Morrowind, winning a vital victory, but at great
cost of life, property, gold, in credibility of the Empire and ultimately, the
integrity of the great state of Morrowind.

My own father fought in the army of House Redoran, though at the time, he
captained an East Empire Company Galley. He spoke little of his involvement in
the war. Although he did mention many times that

> *“The Argonians left behind nothing but flooded or burned towns and bloated*
> *corpses…”*

When the Argonians did not feel confident of a field victory, they melted away
and used guerilla tactics to harass the Redoran and Imperial forces they were
confronted with. At times, some mages suggested that the Saxhleel had command of
strange and heretofore unknown weather magics (see *Report: Disaster at Ionith*)
to create new areas of wetland where they would have the advantage. If the
events at Tear were not caused by the fallout from the eruption of Red Mountain,
then the devastation of Dres lands suggests the Argonians (or the Hist) could
command the weather and natural world.

The invasion began with a savage, possibly magical, reduction of the Dres
districts in the southernmost regions of Morrowind, around Tear. The entire
district flooded rapidly, as described in Ravel’s *The Red Year*. The city of
Tear was largely submerged, in a matter of hours, into the miles and miles of
new swampland. At a stroke, one of Morrowind’s Great Houses had been reduced to
a fleeing horde of refugees.

The army of the An-Xileel then bypassed the southern areas of Morrowind, passing
by Narsis and Mournhold entirely, storming up the eastern coast of the mainland,
in a devastating blitz toward Telvanni lands. This, along with the meager
intelligence gleaned by the Penitus Occulatus and Redoran forces, from Saxhleel
prisoners suggests that vengeance was the principal motivation behind the
invasion, as opposed to conquest. This did not mean the An-Xileel lacked
strategy. The Dres were not left to flee unmolested; the An-Xileel left a
bloodthirsty rearguard behind to crucify any Dunmer left in Tear, sack the city
most savagely, and harass the beleaguered Dres forces as they beat a hasty
retreat westward toward Cyrodiil.

Meanwhile, the Argonians smashed their way up the Eastern Coast of Morrowind,
proceeding inexorably toward the lands of the Telvanni. The Indoril bastion of
Necrom was subjected to the routine An-Xileel massacre and the graveyard
desecrated; this was noteworthy, as the An-Xileel wizards made a great show of
raising the dead of Necrom’s great burial site into zombies and thralls to
massacre their living brethren. The An-Xileel deliberately allowed a large
number of survivors to flee Necrom and the villages near it, the better to
spread tales of what had happened in the graveyard city.

Finally, once the Black Marsh army reached Telvanni lands, they crossed to
Vvardenfell at Firewatch, and began a southward march through the various towns
and Tels, beginning with Tel Vos, though its master, Aryon, was elsewhere. The
An-Xileel began their methodical and brutal purge of the Great House that had
enslaved their people for so long; they nonetheless were checked at Sadrith Mora
by the legionnaires of Wolverine Hall. There are still Telvanni alive today,
some of whom I have in fact spoken to. But they are a rare breed in our time.
The An-Xileel were in no mood for negotiation. When Telvanni magecraft could not
turn back their enemies, they sent their finest illusionists to negotiate. These
illusionists, I am told, had their heads turned into standards which the
An-Xileel would carry atop pikes for the remainder of the war.

## 4E 6-7 – Tactical Withdrawal and Fortification

The Dres refugees made it to the city of Narsis, which the Hlaalu were hurriedly
evacuating. Crassius Curio, Imperial Proconsul of Narsis, House Hlaalu Council
member, noted playwright and infamous eccentric, opted to evacuate the entire
city’s populace and have the Hlaalu Mercenary Guard hold the road to Kragenmoor.
An interview I conducted with a witness of events in Narsis, aide to the
Proconsul Maron Ulen, revealed that the evacuation was particularly notable as
Curio gave his address to the people of Narsis, in which he informed his public
of the war and the evacuation, in the nude. Ulen claimed Curio did what he did
as the eccentric councillor believed that

> *“Morrowind needed inspiration in this pressing time.”*

Ulen, however, deadpanned that Curio was regularly wont to take at least one

meal a week in a condition of total nudity, regardless of company, and
celebrated what he called **No Pants Sundas**.

Despite what might seem to many, a clear case of mental instability, Curio, who
was nonetheless an orator and financial manager of considerable skill, was at
this time in effective command of Hlaalu resources; King Hlaalu Helseth was
mysteriously gone from Mournhold and Vedam Dren, Grandmaster of Hlaalu, was at
this time, in a stroke of almost unfathomable luck, with his daughter Ilmeni in
the Imperial City instead of in Ebonheart in Vvardenfell, his usual residence.
In the closing days of 4E 6, Curio vindicated his leadership position by
ambushing and then driving back the Argonian raiding party that had been
shadowing the Dres refugees in a bloody clash beside the banks of the River
Thir – he was still noted as being stark naked whilst directing battle.

At this point, as 4E 7 dawned, Curio marched determinedly toward the hills above
Kragenmoor to take up what House Hlaalu’s leaders deemed an unassailable
position in the foothills of the Valus mountains. It was realistically hoped
that by holding the position Hlaalu had taken, the key to Cyrodiil, Shadowgate
Pass, would be kept open, and Hlaalu patrols, which were being sent regularly,
could shepherd refugees toward Nibenay. Simultaneously, the Hlaalu awaited the
southward march of both the Grand Army of House Redoran, which was mustering in
Blacklight, and Potentate Ocato’s Imperial Legion reinforcements, the latter of
which Vedam Dren had been utilizing the entirety of his wealth and influence to
acquire, though acquiring them was not to be a fast process.

Considered on the whole, it was not a poor strategy. The Argonian Army had
chiefly been ravaging Eastern Morrowind, and as such, they were separated from
Curio not only by the ash choked ruins of Vvardenfell but also by more appealing
targets. Despite the apparent zealotry of the An-Xileel, and Curio’s limited
numbers, the Argonian commanders had realized the strength of Curio’s position,
and did nothing to dislodge him. The Hlaalu were even bolstered by troops of
Knight Protector Angoril, the Altmer commander of the garrison of Fort Pelagiad,
which had by some miracle, been spared the devastation of the eruption. But such
passivity sat poorly with some. Chiefly, it deeply rankled the powerful Sadras
Clan, who were the main military vassal of House Hlaalu. The Sadras very vocally
demanded that Curio march to confront the Argonians more actively. The Hlaalu
refused, noting that they were not yet strong enough.

And as House Hlaalu fortified their position and awaited the promised Imperial
Legions, and Redoran laboured to complete their muster, the An-Xileel, who had
finished reducing House Telvanni to ash, closed in around Mournhold.

## 4E 7 – The Siege of Mournhold

The siege of Mournhold, which began in earnest in mid 4E 7 was brutal. The
Argonians had brought in reinforcements from Thorn and Gideon to join the
victorious troops that had returned from Telvanni lands. It was not only a siege
in the physical sense, but it was an all out assault on Dunmer morale. It is
almost certain that the An-Xileel were aware of the massing Redoran forces at
Blacklight and they had likely made preparations for House Hlaalu’s
reinforcement by the Imperial Legion. As such, they wanted Mournhold to be the
last straw to break Dunmer resistance.

Allegedly, the An-Xileel brought with them not merely thousands of Argonian
Warriors, they drove the monstrous reptilian denizens of the marsh before their
advance (which may explain the expansion of the marshes into the Dres
districts), enormous Nagas and Swamp Leviathans clambered forth from the bogs.
Although this has been attested by multiple witnesses and written in various
items of correspondence, controlling such monsters is an act of beast taming
that would impress even the Bosmer Kings of Ancient Times. Controversially
however, when these fantastical happenings were reported by Duke Vedam Dren, to
the Elder Council, he was unceremoniously laughed from the council chambers.

A survivor of the siege also noted that the Argonians also kept up a steady
cadence of traditional Saxhleel drums and war horns. Their illusionists worked
tirelessly and with flawless synergy to maintain spells of terror and discomfort
over a vast area.

A survivor noted:

> *“At Mournhold, the lizards didn’t let none of us sleep none. Their tricks*
> *kept the mages from casting proper-like and they always kept the fear*
> *beating in our hearts; like Molag Bal himself were floating above the city,*
> *beating like a madman on a giant drum and barking out his awful laugh. We*
> *gave em all hell, I’m proud of that…but they never let us forget they were*
> *coming for us. And there aren’t none of us what have ever forgot it.”*

Giant trebuchets flung both desecrated corpses and living prisoners over
Mournhold’s walls. By night, the Argonians lit eerie green bonfires that leapt
into the night skies and sang disconcerting war hymns in Jel, the main dialect
of the native language of the Saxhleel in Black Marsh. It is a tongue regarded
as deeply alien to the languages of Men and Mer. In the nights during the siege
of Mournhold, these hymns must have had a rather otherworldly aura.

The defenders, starving and outnumbered, held out for four months. This was all
the more remarkable, since House Indoril, the traditional rulers of the
Mournhold district, had withdrawn the vast majority of their strength, and the
population, well before the An-Xileel closed ranks around the Dunmer capital.
The defence was taken up by those who had fled into the city as refugees, the
Fighters Guild, those who refused to leave, by the members of the Imperial Cult
faction in Mournhold and finally those fanatical devotees of the Temple- which
was based out of the capital- and who had journeyed to Morrowind’s very heart,
to defend the once sacred city of Almalexia. But inevitably, on the 27^th^ of
Hearthfire, in a torrential rainstorm, the merciless and determined Saxhleel
brought down the walls of Mournhold, mining beneath the walls in multiple
places. And rapidly, the sack of Mournhold commenced, with the ancient capital
desecrated by the vengeance crazed An-Xileel. My sources informed me that, to
their eternal credit, the majority of defenders did **not** run; they knew
escape was impossible and most of them had chosen to fight and die for the
capital voluntarily.

My source, Uriel, said

> *"When I woke up in the rubble, I was amazed to be alive. But although I was*
> *surging with the thrill of survival, I was sad too, on a level that’s hard*
> *to describe. I cried for a long time, and not just because my brothers in*
> *arms were gone. There was something poetic about that day. It didn’t matter*
> *whether you were grey skinned or not or whether you worshipped the Divines*
> *or the Temple. I knew something special had been and was now vanished.*
> *Because, for one day, one beautiful moment in Mournhold’s sordid history, we*
> *weren’t Dunmer, Imperials, Nords or whatever… we were just brothers and*
> *sisters. Just the people of Morrowind."*

It was a very long time ere the sack was completed- this was, according to
Uriel, a relentless, door to door week long bloodbath.

Afterward, the blood-drunk Saxhleel journeyed to the Scathing Bay, dragging a
horde of freshly captured prisoners, and at the steaming fissure of an
underwater volcano that is, to this day, all that remains of Vivec City, and
engaged in a gore-ridden fortnight long sacrifice to their alien faith. The
witness I asked about this event, who was from the outset, extremely reluctant
to discuss it, described the Argonian sacrifice as being performed while the
reptiles were in some kind of spiritual trance and that the segment of the
ritual which they saw had a bizarre melody to it, as though the entire An-Xileel
army were singing some gruesome song in praise to their gods, and in mockery of
Vivec. Emperor Attrebus Mede I, who I had the honour to meet and discuss my
interest in Eastern Provincial history told me that to this day, the Argonians
feel that something special happened at the Scathing Bay.

What stands out the most about the siege of Mournhold is that there *were*
extant Dunmer and Imperial forces in Morrowind, forces that many historians feel
might have confronted the besiegers and successfully broken their siege of the
city. Thousands and thousands of Dunmer have, in the years since the Argonian
Invasion, expressed similar sentiments. Redoran was massing in Blacklight and
Hlaalu had combined its mercenaries, with some of the Dres refugees and a number
of Vvardenfell Imperial Legion survivors into a small but effective force.
**Why** did no relief at all come for Mournhold?

Multiple reasons could be put forward. The first is that the closest forces,
Hlaalu, which were fortified in the Valus Mountains, were too small to act
alone. It is estimated that there were less than ten thousand soldiers under
Hlaalu control, whereas the An-Xileel had well over forty five thousand
Argonians, to say nothing of the swamp beasts they controlled. Numbers **do**
matter, and just like any self respecting military leader, Knight Commander
Angoril of Fort Pelagiad, who had assumed command beside Crassius Curio, was
aware of this fact and the fact that alone, he stood no chance against the
Argonians.

Also importantly, although home to the Imperial Monarchs of Morrowind who were
traditionally chosen from Hlaalu ranks, Mournhold was an Indoril Bastion. The
royal family were either dead, vanished or in Cyrodiil. Hlaalu leadership were
in no hurry to risk their strength for House Indoril, a longtime enemy. Nor did
the leadership of House Indoril, who had marched to Blacklight, want to take any
action which might further empower their ancient Hlaalu enemies. Though House
Redoran sensibly favoured uniting with the Hlaalu and Imperial forces at
Kragenmoor, Indoril vehemently opposed this and argued that it was better to
wait, bolster the army massing at Blacklight with Nord and Orcish mercenaries as
well as any Telvanni or Ashlander troops that made their way to the army. I also
infer that Indoril wanted to win a victory against the Argonians with minimum
possible involvement from the Imperial Legion, the better to increase their own
influence at the expense of the Empire, who their house had always hated.

It was House Indoril’s delaying which carried the day in the war councils at
Blacklight. This delaying was a political move made at the expense of the lives
of the people of Mournhold, and was chiefly responsible for the city’s fall.
Further, in light of the subsequent shift of the capital to Blacklight, it is
possible some members of House Redoran itself sought to diminish Indoril’s power
and prestige at Mournhold’s expense. Also, the impotent government of Potentate
Ocato and pointless squabbling of the Elder Council played no small part in the
devastation of Mournhold, as pointless political manoeuvring in the Imperial
City somehow delayed the dispatch of Legion Troops for months on end. Even then,
the men Duke Dren was granted were a mere pittance of the soldiers he required.

## 4E 8 – The Endgame

By the start of 4E 8, the empire had finally mustered and granted command of a
legion – five thousand men – to Duke Vedam Dren, and Dren made quickly for
Shadowgate Pass and Kragenmoor. Despite his strong pace, he was held up by
refugees at Cheydinhal. But he did gain the allegiance of one thousand extra
soldiers from Cheydinhal, including the prestigious Knights of the Thorn, under
command of the famed chevalier Farwil Indarys, a hero of the Oblivion Crisis.
Once he reached the Valus Mountains, his pace slowed, as his correspondence
noted deeper than usual snowfalls in the mountain crossing- however he most
certainly exaggerated these reports.

Now Hlaalu consolidated its forces, as they now possessed over fourteen thousand
soldiers. But instead of breaking camp and moving eastward, toward the An-Xileel
in Mournhold, Dren expanded the fortifications Crassius Curio had already
established and gave every impression even larger force was now occupying the
Kragenmoor district for the foreseeable future. He put up masses of flags and
banners, he increased patrols and made himself very visible. Then, he divided
his forces. A sizeable, but fast moving detachment of cavalry, a mix of
mercenaries and Knights of the Thorn, was ordered to ride hard to Necrom and
attack the An-Xileel who occupied the town. But even as Dren’s cavalry force
dashed eastward, the duke divided his forces again, leaving a force of mostly
Sadras soldiers at Kragenmoor, while he led the majority of his remaining foot
and some horse back into Cyrodiil. Witnesses in camp, mostly from House Sadras,
noted that the Duke gave every indication that the Hlaalu were withdrawing until
further Imperial aid arrived.

For the Sadras soldiers, Dren’s withdrawal into Cyrodill was beyond the pale.
The heads of House Sadras communicated to Redoran and Indoril their immediate
desire to attack the Argonians and that they believed their own forces and the
cavalrymen who had attacked Necrom, had been used in an act of unforgiveable
cowardice – to cover Hlaalu’s withdrawal from the war, into the arms of Vedam
Dren’s Imperial patrons in Cyrodiil.

The appeal of House Sadras tipped the scales in favour of action, and at last,
the Redoran made ready to march, and when they combined with House Sadras, they
had a force of over thirty thousand at their command. It was substantially less
that their An-Xileel enemies fielded, but it seems at this point, Dunmer
fortunes had taken a turn for the better.

The An-Xileel seemed to have come to the conclusion that the war was all but
over and that Redoran would not march. Their soldiers had sacked the capital and
had lost much of the discipline that had allowed them to overrun much of
Morrowind. They had begun celebrating the glorious conquest of Morrowind before
its conclusion. But, the attack on Necrom awoke the martial spirit of the
An-Xileel. Immediately, a large force was sent north from the main Argonian
encampment at Mournhold to hunt down the attackers, who immediately fled north,
pursued by the Argonian hunters. Then, amidst a devastating ash storm, the main
force of what An-Xileel propaganda has come to call the “Army of Justice” broke
camp at last. They moved west, crossed the river Thir and made to intercept the
Redoran Grand Army on its determined southward advance. At this point however,
disaster struck for the An-Xileel.

For instead of beating a hasty retreat into Cyrodiil or fortifying Hlaalu’s
impregnable position above Kragenmoor, Vedam Dren had marched post-haste
southeast and emerged from the Valus Mountains at the great city of Stormhold.
Being so far behind the An-Xileel front, and given that almost the entirety of
the city’s warriors were in Morrowind itself, Dren stormed the city almost
overnight and conducted what was becoming, in this war, a massacre that could
almost be considered routine. More importantly however, Vedam Dren had his most
powerful mages, (it seems he had many), attack and destroy the city tree of
Stormhold, that is, the Hist that served as the heart and soul of the community.

Though I am not an Argonian, and cannot truly describe the power of the Hist in
the lives of the Saxhleel people, suffice to say it is important on both a
spiritual and biological level. Those Argonians who have discussed the Hist,
have said that it can be heard by them and that it guides them on a subconscious
level. Dren’s action in Stormhold and further attacks on the Hist in surrounding
villages was not only offensive to the Argonians, it threw them into a frenzied
mix of fury, agony and terror that is hard for a non-Saxhleel to describe. The
best parallel I can see is the frenzy amongst the Khajit in Anequina and
Pelletine during the Void Nights; even then, it is a rough and imperfect
comparison. I can only postulate that Dren, whatever he did, must have utilised
very powerful illusion or curse magic to garner the reaction that occurred.

The Argonian army was stripped of order and discipline. It all but fell apart
and burst forth from its warpath and descended into a maddened southward dash to
find and destroy the desecrator of the Hist. In this moment of greatest
opportunity, House Sadras wasted no time. They stormed down from their redoubt,
surged north, and then at rough and hilly spot almost a day’s march south of
Veranis caught and slaughtered the vanguard of the Argonian army easily.
Although it was a bloodbath, the Sadras were accomplished warriors and knew that
in a confrontation with the An-Xileel army as a whole, they had no chance. House
Sadras, under Knight (now Councillor) Voryn Sadras, began withdrawing southward,
steadily and inexorably slowing the An-Xileel army’s pace, allowing the Redoran
Guard to catch up.

And, on the 26^th^ of Mid Year 4E 8, the Redoran Guard **did** catch up. In a
snowy field east of Kragenmoor, within sight of the fortifications Vedam Dren
had ordered built, the An-Xileel "Army of Justice" were crushed at the Battle of
Bloodmoor, which is also called the Battle of the Scarlet Snow. As a violent
snowstorm raged across the field in the Valus foothills, the Sadras turned to
fight in a field between two snowy hills. Physically overextended from their
frenzy, and drained by the snows of the Valus, the Argonian invaders were now
trapped between two enemy forces. But still, infused with an unnatural vigor,
the An-Xileel bled the Grand Army of Redoran for its victory. The fighting took
two whole days to conclude and it ended with only a very few Argonians breaking
through the trap House Sadras had led them into. The Grand Army of Blacklight
itself suffered heavy losses, mostly among the Redoran and mercenary troops.

## 4E 8-9 – The End of the War

If they had not done so already when Dren’s actions became known, the Argonian
garrison withdrew almost immediately from Mournhold once they became aware of
the battle. The Hunting Party that had pursued the cavalry screen north, and any
other Argonians withdrew completely from Telvanni Lands and Northern Morrowind.
However, Tear and the Southern Marches, flooded and soon reinforced by fresh
An-Xileel levies from the heart of the swamp remained in the power of the
Saxhleel conquerors.

The Redoran were aware that they had suffered serious losses and that Morrowind
as a whole was in no condition to maintain an offensive war. In the camp of the
Grand Army, which had taken residence in the Sadras’ camp at Kragenmoor, were
gathered representatives from Houses Redoran, Indoril, Sadras and some of the
Telvanni who had returned from Skyrim and Solstheim when Redoran went on the
offensive. All the gathered leaders more or less agreed that the war should end.
But the representatives of House Hlaalu, the Empire and House Dres were in
Cyrodiil, in the army of Duke Vedam Dren, which had retreated westward into
Nibenay when a Breton farmer of Stormhold brought Dren word of an An-Xileel army
approaching the city. Dren had not ventured to break north into Morrowind and
risk crossing the flooded Dres districts, as he had taken losses in the
swamplands and during his sack of Stormhold. The next months saw Dren and his
army convalescing in Nibenay and gathering reinforcements, as the Duke refused
to return to Morrowind without a strong army at his back.

Houses Hlaalu and Dres and the Empire as a whole were thus cut off from the rest
of Morrowind’s leaders, and their voices would not be heard in the debates to
come. When Farwil Indarys, who had led Duke Dren’s cavalry diversion, attempted
to speak for House Hlaalu he was beset by assassins, but nonetheless escaped.
The other houses bristled at the loss of Morrowind’s southern districts,
especially the once great city of Tear. But they did not feel it worth the risk
to attempt a campaign of reconquest, especially since the houses who would
profit most were Dres and Hlaalu. House Indoril vehemently opposed any move that
involved Imperial Intervention, and the Indoril and Redoran leaders very nearly
came to blows when Redoran suggested that the Legion might be utilised to
reconquer the southern districts. Meanwhile, House Sadras was adamantly against
being put in any position where they would be subservient to Hlaalu; they were
of the opinion that they had proven themselves defenders of Morrowind, worthy to
sit upon the Grand Council as a Great House. Surprisingly, Redoran agreed with
them, having come to admire their fierce martial spirit. Thus, on the 1^st^
Morning Star, 4 E 9, the Grand Council decided to send their peace terms to the
An-Xileel leaders in Tear and return all their Argonian prisoners without
ransom. The An-Xileel for their part, opted to accept that conquering Morrowind
would be more trouble than was worth and signed the Treaty of Tear, ceding the
southern marches of Morrowind formally to Argonia, in exchange for which, the
An-Xileel would pay reparations and the cost of the land to Morrowind.

## Chapter End: Towards the Stormcrown Interregnum

What were the results and what are the lessons we can take from the Red Year and
the An-Xileel Invasion? One might state that it is obvious that building a
civilization beneath a giant, active volcano, is unwise. It is also perhaps
unwise to suspend meteors in the sky above active volcanoes.

But more seriously, the first result is that the Red Year and An-Xileel attack
proved that the Great Houses prioritised their own well being far more than they
did the well being of Morrowind. All too often during the war, the Great Houses
were confronted with choices between a greater good and potential benefit for
their own House at the expense of others, sometimes at the expense of all of
Morrowind itself. Every time, the Great Houses chose to pursue their self
interest, or the detriment of their rivals, at the expense of the Dunmer people.
Of course, this is best shown at the siege of Mournhold, where House Indoril
allowed their own city (along with thousands of innocent people) to burn, just
to spurn House Hlaalu and the Empire. But many other instances exist. The entire
war was a long and pathetic game of thrones and an exercise in futile and
sickening self-interest.

Secondly, the war signalled the end of the power of the Tribunal Temple and was
a clarion call a religious reformation among the Dunmer People; this was
described by Thara of Rihad in *“The Reclamations: The Fall of the Tribunal and*
*the Rise of the New Temple”*. The struggles of the dissident priests will be
discussed in a later entry.

Thirdly, the war showed that Potentate Ocato was not keeping effective control.
Some concession might be made for Ocato; after all, it had only been six years
since the Oblivion Crisis. Defenders of the Potentate find this weakness
incongruous with his record; Ocato had served admirably as a legionnaire, then
Imperial Battlemage, then High Chancellor and head of the Imperial Government.
Yet the Elder Council was worse than they had been at the time of Uriel Septim
IV. Even Lathenil of Sunhold, a personal friend of the Potentate, admits that
Ocato was too reluctant and lukewarm to effectively heal Tamriel. It should not
have taken so long to outfit such an important Imperial Duke as Vedam Dren with
one or even two legions.

Finally, the war showed the importance of the interplay between province, race
and empire, especially in the east. Racial loathing is a fact of life in Eastern
Tamriel, and these hatreds had only been kept in check by the Empire, sometimes
more successfully than others. Nords, Dunmer and Argonians had been fighting
each other for centuries and since the time of Tiber Septim, the Empire had
worked hard to unify the East, always the most fractious region of Tamriel.
Though the Nords oft decry it as weak, the Dunmer Great Houses loathe it as a
grasping violation of their land and the Saxhleel spurn it as foreign to the
marsh, the Imperial law and culture, even with its overbearing bureaucracy and
greedy Nibenese mercantilism is the glue that has held the Eastern Provinces
together. When Imperial authority collapsed, the An-Xileel saw their chance for
vengeance, and they unhesistatingly took it. Even today, this same scenario is
rearing its head in Skyrim, even as a vicious civil war wages. One need only
compare the two cities of Cheydinhal and Windhelm to see the positive influence
of Nibenese cosmopolitanism, and look at the lessons of the An-Xileel invasion
of Morrowind to understand how important the Empire has been to this constant
racial and provincial interaction in Eastern Tamriel.

The troubles of the East did not end with the Treaty of Tear. Although Argonia
was quick to seal itself away from the world, the An-Xileel content to ignore
Tamriel, further suffering would soon engulf Morrowind, Solstheim and Skyrim.
For the next chapter shall explore the Stormcrown Interregnum and the Days of
Blood and Gold.
