---
series: Bedtime Stories
title: A Bedtime Story about the Dragon Bridge
reddit: 1v01m5
author: The_OP3RaT0R
date: 2014-01-12T01:49:04Z
about: |
  A bedtime story – been a while since this sub’s seen one of these. It’s
  serving as my medium for speculating on not only where I think the Dragon
  Bridge came from, but what fanciful myths might surround it. Enjoy.
---

“Son, let me tell you a story.”

> “C’mon Dad, I can’t help you on your trip to the city if I don’t get any sleep
> tonight.”

“Son, this is important.”

> “What could be so important-”

“Shush. This story is about our town, and where we come from is important to
> Nords like us.”

> “Yeah, alright, but couldn’t you tell me about it tomorrow?”

“No. So, once upon a time-”

> *Sigh*

“**So, once upon** a time, there was no Dragon Bridge, because there wasn’t a
Dragon Bridge. But one day, someone built it, and there was a reason for our
town to spring up here.”

> “Thanks Dad, nice story, now can I get to bed?”

“I’m not done. No one knows for sure who built the bridge or why it has a dragon
head on it, but there are a few takes on why. One is that once a great stone
dragon roamed the land, in the days of Tiber Septim. It kept harassing the Nords
Tiber wanted to join his army, so he went off on a hunt alone, and for days he
wasn’t seen, until he was spotted riding on the great beast’s back and battling
it. Legend has it that he forced it down toward the river, and when it spread
out its wings he stabbed it then cut it in two under its armpits.”

> “I’ve never heard that legend.”

“Well, now you have.”

> “Sounds fake to me.”

“Maybe it is a little far-fetched. But not so far-fetched as—”

> *Yawn* "I don’t need to hear every legend, Dad.”

“Fine, I’ll tell you what *I* think and then I’ll let you get to sleep.”

> “Thank you.”

“My money’s on the ancient Nords; if I had to guess, I’d say they built it some
time either soon before or after the Dragon War. Before, I’d assume they’d have
built it at the behest of the Dragons, like everything else then, but I like the
irony that after their liberation, the Nords would be walking on their
oppressors. What do you think?”

> “You know, Dad, I think they built the bridge so they could cross the river.”

“Oh, you’re no fun. Now go to sleep. Something you should take to heart, son, is
that things are never so mundane. To live in Skyrim is to change your mind ten
times a day lest it freeze to death.”
