---
series: Casualties of the Great War
part: 3
title: Hammerfell
reddit: 1v0u5a
author: Avian81
date: 2014-01-12T09:44:19Z
---

*181st Year of the 4th Era, Mathieu Aviénne*

## Foreword

The Great War is undoubtedly the largest conflict we will ever see in our
lifetime, it took the lives of thousands of soldiers and civilians alike. I was
a Field Medic in the Imperial Army, I tended the wounds of the people who were
hurt or injured during the war. After the war I continued lending my aid in any
way I can. When I left my home in Daggerfall at the beginning of the war, all I
wanted to do was to return home, now I know I need to help those who have no
home to return to. As I helped people I made many friends, we exchanged stories
and I discovered that you can only learn the horrors of war from someone who
experienced it first-hand. Here I documented the most striking stories from the
Cities, hoping that when future generations read this, they will know the
suffering war brings and never make the same mistakes that we do.

## Accounts from Hammerfell

### Stros M’Kai

*Avik Ellasar*

Avik was the Helmsman to the Red Pearl, a cargo ship belonging to the East
Empire Company. Avik lived in Stros M’Kai ever since his Father left him there
20 years ago. He once led a life of piracy before being caught by the Imperial
Guard, and has turned his life around ever since. Hitherto Avik has never found
a reason to lift a blade, but not all things stay constant forever.

> “It was the 8th of Sun’s Dusk when it happened. We were sailing along with
> two other ships, our job was to deliver food and supplies from Anvil to Stros
> M’Kai. It was a fair day, the wind was good and the crew was happy, sometime
> around evening we spotted a large group of Altmeri ships to the south of where
> we were. We didn’t pay much attention to them, we thought they were just
> merchant ships, but when they got closer we started to make out that they were
> anything but merchant ships. Their hulls were enforced and they had enough
> artillery to sink Thras twice over. At that point our Captain, Captain Akkad,
> told us to go full sail and double time towards Stros M’kai. The other ships
> didn’t pay much attention to them and continued on at half sail. The Altmeri
> Ships started firing mage-fire and artillery right at us. At that time we
> thought they were a large group of pirates, we never even heard of the war or
> the ultimatum yet, we were confused. One of the ships we were with caught on
> fire and sunk, we didn’t have time to stop for survivors so we just kept
> going. The Altmeri Ships continued their chase, they eventually caught up with
> the other ship we were with, and sunk them too. It was just us now, luckily we
> led them on for so long that we could already see Stros M’Kai. While we were
> approaching the docks we could see soldiers rallying people inside the city
> walls, and artillery was being fired from the city’s defences, it was an
> all-out war.”

“How did you escape the City then?”

> “It wasn’t easy, the Altmeri Ships had already landed on the shores and they
> were starting to unload their men to start their invasion by land. They
> started blasting the city’s southern walls, and we all knew they wouldn’t hold
> for much longer. Then suddenly this Imperial soldier came running towards us,
> he told us the General ordered that all ships in port should circle round to
> the northern shores of the island, and start boarding evacuees and to try to
> save as many as possible. Captain Akkad agreed and then ordered us all to
> raise sail and sail north. When we got to the northern shores of the Island,
> we could see the people who escaped the city, it was dark that night but we
> saw how many they were from the torches they were carrying. The people started
> boarding our ship, and then all of a sudden a ship rammed us from starboard.
> It was corsairs, they boarded our ship and started to slaughter everyone
> refugee and sailor alike. I recognized that ship; it was the same one I used
> to sail in during my days as a Pirate. Then I saw my old Captain Harris jump
> onto our deck, he was leading his men to sack all the ships that were trying
> to help the refugees. I knew he had to be stopped. I ran through the fight,
> and made sure I got to stab him in his back while he was fighting one of our
> sailors. The rest of his men saw this but were reluctant to leave, we
> continued fighting on the deck of our ship, and so did Stros M’Kai. After a
> while the battle against the pirates ended, but the city was still under siege
> and refugees were still coming. Our ship was already battered and could sink
> any minute so we decided to leave, and sail for Hegathe.”

Avik Allasar, sailed his men to the port city of Hegathe, aling with a few
refugees that were onboard their ship. Stros M’Kai, held on for days but thanks
to the plan of the General to use cargo ships to evacuate the island not many of
its citizens died. Avik’s Captain died of his wounds on their way to Hegathe,
Avik was then voted by the crew to be the Captain. After Avik and his crew
landed in Hegathe, him and his ship was conscripted into the navy and did not
survive the city’s siege. May the Divines bless his soul.

## Roseguard

*Ancola Lixus*

Ancola was the wife of the blacksmith at Roseguard, and mother to an Imperial
Soldier that was stationed in the villages’ fort. The small village she grew up
in was nothing more than farmland, surrounding Fort Roseguard. She and her
husband was somewhat the pillar of the community, being that they were the only
ones that the Imperial Legate would listen to whenever the community had a
problem. Except during war, the roles in society always change.

“The day the invasion started half the fort’s soldiers were already called to
add to the garrison at Rihad, and the village was left vulnerable. I was just
happy that I could still see my son, he had  become a Prefect at the fort, and
led the villages’ garrison in absence of the Legate. My husband was always so
proud of his son; he’d usually boast of his achievements in the local inn and
drink till he passed out. That evening he was delivered to our house by his
friends drunk as always I told him. He paid no mind to me and just laid down on
the bed. After an hour or so I heard knocking at our door, I told my husband to
wake up and answer it but he was too drunk to even talk. So I opened the door
and to my surprise, it was my son! He was sweating all over and gasping for air,
I gave him some water but he shoved it away, he just said that we should hide in
our basement and that everything is gonna be alright. He woke up his father and
escorted him to the basement along with me. He told us to lock the doors and ran
back to the fort.”

“And I’m guessing that was when the invasion started?”

“Sadly it was. We heard screams, and fighting from above and my husband grew
restless. He said he wanted to go up there and fight alongside his friends. I
told him to stay put but he wouldn’t listen to me. Then silence just gripped the
air, for a while we thought the battle was over my husband wanted to go out and
check but I told him to stay in the basement while I went upstairs. As I got
near our door someone knocked on the door and screamed to us, he said “By Order
of the Aldmeri Dominion, Open this door immediately!” Before I could react my
husband pushed me aside, and approached the door. He had a war axe in hand and
kicked the door open, I watched him as he bashed the head of an elf with it, but
he didn’t notice the mage that was next to him… I watched him as he…”

“It’s okay, tell me what happened”

“He was burned to death and that elf just laughed at him while my husband
screamed and begged for his life. Then they grabbed me and took me to the fort
along with the rest of our neighbours. When we got to the fort they herded the
rest of the villagers, and I saw the Imperial Garrison in a line headed for the
gallows. I saw my son, he was beaten and his hands were bound, he looked at me
straight in my eyes, and he probably realized his father wasn’t with me. I’m
pretty sure he was in shock cause I saw a tear run down his eye, then all of a
sudden he and his men started to fight with the elves, the towns people joined
in the rumble and it was chaotic everywhere. His hands were bound but he got to
take some of them out either way. But what did end his life was an arrow to the
chest. Then when his men saw he had fallen, the fighting stopped just as fast as
it started. The elves continued to hang the soldiers in the gallows, and the
rest of us were thrown into the dungeons, and we were kept there till the end of
the war.”

Ancola Lixus, left Roseguard after the war and has moved to Sentinel where her
brother resides. The memory of her son’s bravery in defending Roseguard was
remembered by all who survived the fight for the city. She should be proud of
her family; after all they have been titled the defenders of Roseguard, even in
death.

> > This isn’t done I’ve had these 2 stories for weeks but never posted them,
> > I’m still working on a Khajiit fighting on the Dominion’s side or I can put
> > that one in another story and put this one In Hammerfell 2, but I’m having
> > writing problems and stuff… Tbh I just got lazy, and need a break Anyway
> > come back later or tomorrow if you want to read that one I’ll add and I hope
> > you enjoy. Cheers Mates!!!
> {:tag="small"}
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
