---
title: Post-Simulacrum Escort Procedure of Emperor Uriel Septim VII
subtitle: An Excerpt
reddit: 1v4f9r
author: Ushankaclock
date: 2014-01-13T18:20:19Z
---

> *Part of a faded 3E Blades document, found in the archives of Cloud Ruler*
> *Temple. It details procedure of securing Emperor Uriel Septim VII following*
> *the events of the Imperial Simulacrum.*
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

1. His Majesty The Emperor must be accompanied by an entourage of at least three
   Knight Brothers/Sisters when travelling outside of his personal chambers in
   White-Gold Tower. When inside his chambers, at least one Knight
   Brother/Sister must be stationed outside of The Emperor’s chambers, with
   another watching through an unseen observation panel to watch for a nocturnal
   attack.

1. Personal assistants to His Majesty The Emperor including, but not limited to,
   The Imperial Battlemage, must be extensively background checked before they
   are allowed to accompany the Emperor, in terms of both personal and family
   history.

1. His Majesty The Emperor’s food, before each meal, must first be taste-tested
   before leaving the area of preparation, as well as again before consumption,
   by a designated Knight Brother/Sister.

1. His Majesty The Emperor’s eyes must be thoroughly checked at various
   intervals of the day for the possibility of a Simulacrum, or a mind-control
   incantation – once after waking up, once after each meal, and once before
   sleep.

1. During a public event that has not been fully combed for risk – including,
   but not limited to, a third-party dinner gathering – a decoy may be used. A
   failsafe must be agreed upon by the decoy’s handlers in the event that his
   loyalty to the Empire falters, and a Simulacrum becomes possible.

> *The rest of the document is singed and illegible.*
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
