---
title: The Sons of Eln
subtitle: A Tale of the Creation
reddit: 1v586x
author: coldacid
date: 2014-01-13T23:13:13Z
---

There was once a farmer named Eln, who knew nothing of crops, but was neighbor
to Akt and Lokh. One day Lokh told Eln of a new place he would discover, full of
fertile lands so that Elb could learn to grow himself. Eln was afraid, but saw
that Akt would be going to this new land too, and so he agreed to join them.
n’tn’tr’s

In the new land, Eln created himself a farm, where he could grow himself and
many things besides. Lokh told him and the others many tricks about growing
yourself, but it was hard for Eln to absorb the lessons. So Lokh peered into his
heart and said, “if you have children, they will learn the lessons for you, and
you will grow.”

So Eln decided to have children. But he didn’t realize that to have children he
himself would die. When he died, his body became a pair of twins – the first,
Ael, and the second, An. Unfortunately, neither had a perfect share of their
father. Ael was afraid and averse to change, while An hadn’t his father’s
self-control. Ael believed that if he and An could combine, however, they could
rectify the unbalance.

“Let us become our father,” said Ael to his brother. But An had already begun to
wander away and explore the lakes and forests beyond the farm.

As he wandered, An left pieces of himself behind. And yet, he was always whole;
each part left behind was different in a way, but still strong and fully formed.

Far to the west, An saw a distant, sun-baked land. He threw his arm to it, where
it darkened and became hard. To the east, he threw his eyes to a strange and
fog-clouded land. And as he walked through the swamps and forests and jungles
and mountains, he left behind toes, before swimming to a distant land in the
north, where he settled a while.

But for each part that he threw or left, it grew right back, and so An was never
incomplete. And those parts that he left in his travels too, became whole in
time.

Meanwhile, afraid to leave the farm, Ael remained behind, trying to stay as
still as possible. And in doing so, he became brittle, and fell apart from the
winds and the rains.

First fell the ears, which became like brass on the ground and could hear only
themselves until they vanished. Then the heart fell out, and was carried away by
powerful spirits. Around the same time, the hands turned green and broke away.

The feet shriveled off and fell in a river, carried off in different directions
by the currents. As the arms snapped away they became wings and flew into the
sky. The legs rolled like logs into nearby bushes, grew mouths, and ate each
other. Finally, with nothing to support it, the body crumbled, leaving nothing
but an angry head with regretful memories.

In time, the sundered parts of Ael took bodies of their own, changed and
incomplete. But the parts of An were always fully formed, despite being changed
by everything around them.
