---
title: Imperial Armory report on [Gunpowder] Weapons, 4E173
reddit: 1v5af3
author: sha-3-512
date: 2014-01-13T23:36:29Z
about: |
  For this week’s theme of “war”, a brief account which sheds some light on the
  absence of gunpowder weapons in Tamriel, and slightly advances a previous spy
  story. Enjoy!
---

SECRET//NOFORN
2 Rain’s Hand, 4E199

High King,

As part of the continuing investigation into [the attempted assassination of
Ambassador Elenwen][0], we have established that the explosion intended to
destroy her caravan was engineered through entirely alchemical arts. No magic
was involved. The specific reagents involved, while non-magical, may have been
generated from ordinary natural materials through magical means of thus far
unclear etiology.

Pursuant to your question about the utility of non-magical explosives for our
own military purposes, please find enclosed an earlier report on this subject
prepared during the Great War.

Sincerely,
\[REDACTED], Imperial Intelligence Liaison

-----

SECRET//NOFORN
28 Sun’s Height, 4E173

Imperial Armory, Special Projects Division

Fajijo Weaponization Project - Executive Narrative Summary

As ordered, we have completed our feasibility study on weaponizing the Khajiit
holiday curiosity they call fajijo (lit. “spark lights”). Fajijo is a granular
black powder which is made by combining the powders of charcoal, sulfur, and
saltpeter. When ignited in loose form, it erupts into bright white flames. When
ignited in compressed form, it explodes with a bright flash and an extremely
loud bang. After acquiring basic information on how to make the substance, we
set out to manufacture a sample of our own. Charcoal is of course easy to
obtain. Sulfur is more expensive, but can be purchased on the open market.
Saltpeter is another story. Small crystals of saltpeter can be found growing in
old barns, in certain caverns, and generally where animal excreta decays in
large quantities. In a few locations it can even be mined in substantial
quantities.

But if there are any good sources of mined saltpeter in unoccupied Cyrodiil, we
haven’t found them. There are barns and caves, but these don’t produce in large
quantities and require substantial processing facilities. The Khajiit were
rumored to have an alternate source. Some enterprising members of our group
happened to encounter a trio of shady looking Khajiit traders in a tavern, and
recognizing the opportunity, plied them with friendly conversation, free-flowing
alcohol, and a bagful our our petty cash fund. We learned that the Khajiit
saltpeter-creation process involves dumping enormous quantities of boiled urine
into a sand pit, letting it sit for a while, and filtering the result through
the ashes of plants. Fortunately we work in a military camp with no shortage of
men who’re happy to obey dumb-sounding orders that don’t involve combat, and
soon enough we had urine and duly processed it. The resulting fajijo was
functional but of very poor quality, unusable for our study. Regrouping, we
learned that Khajiit urine specifically produces the best quality fajijo. The
Khajiit are nothing if not eager for a new thing to trade, and the first caravan
we asked didn’t even look surprised at our request for 200 gallons of their
urine. They left and returned less than two weeks later with more than the
required quantity. Whether they produced it all themselves, I don’t know. Sane
people would pay to get rid of the stuff, but the traders still managed to
extract almost eighty thousand septims for their… product.

In terms of area-denial weapons, you could do worse than the smell of two
hundred gallons of boiling cat piss. My god, there were hardened and scarred
warriors fleeing like rabbits from a rabid dog. Despite the fact that we have
already been reprimanded for forcing the evacuation of the entire camp, I have
ordered that the men responsible be given extra hazard pay, and damn the
regulations.

Pressing bravely on, eventually we produced around a hundred pounds of
high-quality fajijo. The results of the testing by our alchemists and engineers
are extensively recounted in the technical sections of the report. The summary
of the results is as follows, by category.

1. Our team was unanimous in concluding that fajijo is inadequate as an
   explosive weapon, sometimes termed “mines” or “grenades”. It is true that in
   this context, fajijo performs well if conditions are ideal. A few pounds of
   the stuff is more than adequate to kill armored troops within a few yards’
   radius. However, the same can be said of any number of other easily
   mass-produced magical weapons such as scrolls. Fajijo also suffers from very
   rapid degradation when exposed to the elements. Water destroys it instantly.
   Its cost is very high compared to its effects. We conclude that this avenue
   is not worth pursuing.

1. The majority of our team concludes that fajijo is unworkable as a propellant
   for hand-held projectile weapons, the so-called “fire-arms”. We tested a
   number of iron tubes, open at one end, which could be filled with fajijo and
   used to propel a metal ball toward the enemy. The concept is not dissimilar
   to archery. While the fire-arm concept works, the result is a wildly
   inaccurate projectile weapon with an atrociously slow rate of fire. In
   simulated combat using fake weapons, the fire-arm squad was easily wiped out
   by an ordinary squad of Imperial archers. A minority of our team believes
   that improved metallurgy and the use of clockwork mechanisms could overcome
   these deficits, but even if the staggering resources required for such a
   project were available in these difficult times, the majority believes it
   would probably not succeed.

3. Our team was unanimous in concluding that fajijo may have some use as a
   propellant for large-scale siege weapons. Currently this class of weapons
   consists of catapults and trebuchets, but in testing very large-scale
   fire-arms which we term “mortars” and “cannons” depending on configuration,
   we achieved superior range with larger projectiles. Though this concept is
   looked upon very positively by the alchemists and engineers, Imperial
   logistics officers have strongly opposed pursuing these weapons on the basis
   of the tremendous cost in iron and the current impossibility of obtaining
   militarily meaningful quantities of fajijo. Unfortunately this is a
   reasonable set of concerns. We note that the six shots fired by our
   experimental siege weapons consumed more than two-thirds of our entire stock
   of fajijo, which, counting only labor and materials, cost well over half a
   million septims.

In conclusion, I and a majority of my team believe that fajijo weapons are a
worthwhile concept, but also that they are neither currently feasible nor likely
to become so in the foreseeable future.

Victory and honor,

Septimus Varuus, Section Chief, Research and Development

[0]: ./1ukoor
