---
title: Morrowind on the Brink of War
reddit: 1v5m0m
author: willxpm
date: 2014-01-14T01:40:36Z
about: |
  As you may have inferred from the title, I am going to be talking about an
  upcoming war in Morrowind, in keeping with this week’s theme of War. I had
  been planing this post for a while, but never got terribly far. The draft
  (which I will link momentarily) described the possible players in a war in
  Morrowind. It’s optional reading.

  [Factions likely to become involved in war, anon the draft.][0]

  [0]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nxp9CyRv23pylqsKSxMox3d8juSnVekcpl2-mUF2XYg/edit
---

## Issues

Now this war is, as you may have guessed, a civil war. The central issue is
House Redoran’s dominance of Morrowind. Ever since Redoran took over Morrowind
following their defeat of the invading Argonians, they have been dominating
affairs in Morrowind. For a Great House, they have unprecedented political
power. This is why they were able to replace House Hlaalu with House Sardas.
Needless to say, that would make them some new enemies.

The overall theme of Morrowind’s history post-Red Year is House Redoran
autocratically running Morrowind. The most plain example of this is the Grand
Council, which has been moved to the Redoran capital of Blacklight. However,
there is a much more important detail hidden in patterns. There is an ex-Morag
Tong assassin in Riften who claims that following the Red Year the Morag Tong
disbanded. The only group seeming to hold to that promise is the Ashfollow
Guildhall on Solsthiem. However, they are considered outlaws. I suspect that
House Redoran is actively blocking the reformation of the Morag Tong.

Why? Redoran is the Dunmer Warrior House. They rule through martial strength. By
being the strongest, they rule. However, this is philosophy is not common among
the Dunmer. Use of plots and secret murder (as inspired by Boethiah and Mephala)
is the ancient way to gain power. House Redoran realizes that. They therefore
have made their goal to eliminate the old system in favor of one based on
strength and honor, the two categories they excel in. In order to stop the old
system from cropping up again, they have to supress those who used it. Namely
House Hlaalu and the Morag Tong.

Many of the Dunmer people have grown discontent. Among the common people, the
only number I can provide is “about half”, based on a random sampling (i.e. the
people of Raven Rock). These people were willing to attack House Redoran in the
name of House Hlaalu. House Redoran promptly put that to rest.

I go in detail in the Draft about the other factions, but I’ll make a general
statement that Redoran’s autocratic policies would leave many discontent. Now
I’d like to move on to issues not directly pertaining to House Redoran or its
daring adventures in politics.

The Tribunal Temple is on the verge of a total schism. I would guess, based on
the Raven Rock sample, 1/3 of the Temple still would like to follow ALMSIVI,
whereas the other 2/3 (many likely being former Dissident Priests) prefer the
Good Daedra. I doubt the Temple has the capacity to peacefully schism.

Whether or not Morrowind is still part of the Empire is debatable. The Empire
would likely try to resolve that debate before the next war with the Dominion.
Depending on how Great War II goes, factions in Tamriel may try to force
Morrowind to take a side.

In the area wasted by the Red Year, there is still huge wealth in the form of
minerals and Dwemer ruins. Those are incredible prizes.

## Forces

House Redoran has a bonafide standing army. There’s no way around that.

House Indoril likely has some fight left in it. How much I can’t say for
certain. The Ordinators would be formidable, if they are even a shadow of what
they were in 3E427. However, they and House Dres may still be licking wounds
they have no means of healing.

House Sardas is a wild-card. Since we have so little data on their means and
motives, I can only guess. It could be that they are merely a Redoran puppet. A
more intriguing possibility is that they gamed the political system to wedge
themselves in as the newest House. In the latter case, they would have resources
of their own. If you’re feeling imaginative, maybe they’re a Hlaalu puppet.
Still, this is pure speculation.

House Hlaalu still commands considerable resources, apparently. If the Raven
Rock sampling is indicative, then they might be able to start a chain reaction
to propel themselves back into political relevance.

The Tribunal Temple, House Telvanni and the Morag Tong are hard to measure. They
don’t command military might, but they do have significant power.

Western powers like the Empire, Skyrim or the Aldmeri Dominion are likely going
to be preoccupied. But if they perceive a threat or opportunity in Morrowind,
they’re likely enough to take an interest. Argonia is likely to take advantage
of a weakened Morrowind, or they might not.

## The War Itself

House Hlaalu would likely be the ones to initiate a conflict. The logical thing
to do would be to send agents, guerrillas and saboteurs to seize assests like
Dunmer Strongholds, Dwemer ruins and mines. At the same time, Hlaalu allies in
population centers would rise up. I believe this was the intention behind the
Raven Rock coup, but it failed before coming to fruition.

At that point, Redoran would draw out it’s armies. Most of the Hlaalu front-line
forces would be situated in strongholds. However, for the opening phases of the
war they would have very limited ability to fight Redoran directly. Accordingly
they would attempt to spread the Redoran army out as much as possible using
their larger guerrilla force.

This would likely be timed with a schism in the Temple, accidentally or
otherwise. The tension would be building, and a war would break them. Other
Houses would be taking sides. The particulars of siding for each House would be
more complex than I could do service to by guessing, so I won’t try. What I can
say more certainly is that House Telvanni would likely stay out of the war, and
the Ashlanders would likely lean toward House Hlaalu.

Once the war seems to be going a certain way, the losing side may become
desperate enough to contact outside powers. Maybe. It could be that the some of
the Houses would sooner accept defeat than accept an alliance with the Empire,
Dominion or Skyrim. However, I can envision House Hlaalu willing to look outside
for more options, being opportunists to the core. House Redoran respects
strength of arms, which would improve their opinion of Skyrim or the Empire.

However, the entry of any outside party would likely redefine the war.
Anti-Imperial sentiment is still strong in Morrowind, and it’s unlikely that the
Dunmer have forgiven the Argonians or Dominion yet (assuming the Aldmer dropped
Baar Dau). However, the large Dunmer population in Skyrim and Skyrim’s ceding of
Solsthiem would possibly make the Dunmer people less hateful of the Nords. That
does assume a particular ending to the Skyrim Civil War, so it’s HIGHLY
unlikely.

Anyway, if an outside faction came to fight in Morrowind, it would redefine the
sides. A theoretical Imperial invasion would possibly lead to a ceasefire. House
Telvanni would take more interest in the war if that were to occur.

## Conclusion

Political and Religious tensions are on the rise in Morrowind due to shifts in
both of those areas recently. These will likely explode in the very near future.

If MK or a dev sees this and gets ideas, I will eternally regret writing this.
Unlikely, but it would be awful.
