---
title: A Last Lecture on Sithis
reddit: 1v5ugj
author: RideTheLine
date: 2014-01-14T03:11:01Z
---

Arlowe Acilius awoke in his quarters, having slept very little. His rest had
been plagued by the usual nightmares, his students rebelling in the middle of a
sermon, hooded figures breaking into his room at night, and his deceased wife
rising from the grave. It had been a few years since Arlowe had gotten any
proper sleep, not since he became the Professor of Metaphysics at the Arcane
University. He tired of giving the same few lectures to different groups of
equally faceless apprentices, and never feeling any sense of accomplishment. He
was once able to occupy himself during the night with his studies, but the
library had recently run out of fresh material for him. Without any chance to
partake in the words of others, he was forced to write his own.

Arlowe approached the podium, and took a moment to observe the congregation
before him. A fair amount of apprentices had showed up, eager to learn, quills
and ears at the ready. Arlowe sighed, and stroked his grizzly beard. How much
longer would he have to suffer this dreary existence?

“Today, apprentices, I would like to cover a topic we have hardly touched on. I
wish to enlighten you on a subject of a darker tone than usual. Today I wish to
discuss Sithis.”

The apprentices responded with mixed emotions. Some were eager to stray into
something new, some were uncomfortable with the morbid idea, and others were
dismissive. Sithis is just The Void, is he not, what could there be to learn
about nothing?

“As we all know, Sithis is synonymous with The Void. Sithis is no god, no,
Sithis is one level past any tangible god. We all know of Anu and Padomay, yes?
The first primordial forces that shaped existence. We have also learned of Aka
and Lorkhan, who were born as time and space, realizations of Anu and Padomay.
In between them lies another sub-gradient, the souls of the original two,
Anui-El and Sithis. As per usual, these two serve as direct opposites, these
being everything and nothing. Sithis is nothing itself, the infinite emptiness
too absurd for our perceptions. Within Sithis is nothing, but we, as mere
mortals, cannot comprehend true nothing. We are too far removed from Sithis to
understand, I believe the Ada can understand it, but not us. Try and imagine
nothing. What do you see? An infinite blackness, I assume. But that is not
nothing, it is still an image of blackness. You cannot imagine nothing, our
minds are too simple. Sithis, as we’ve said, cannot be directly perceived, but
the result of it can. Some claim that Sithis was the first, which is a
believable idea, for what can come before everything but nothing? And the only
thing that can come before nothing is nothing. Nothing gave way for everything,
where stasis and change could fuel time and space, and all of the Aurbis could
function. In the Dawn, we know there was no time, so Sithis came from Padomay,
but also emerged at the same time. Perhaps Sithis really is the start of the
house. However, what that damned league of assassins is wrong about is the
nature of their ‘Dread Father’”.

A rather rebellious youth, Antoine Marienne, interrupted. “And just what do you
mean by that? Sithis is a god like any other.”

“And that is where you too are wrong. Sithis is a force, Lorkhan is the first
being with identity. Remember that the precious ‘Night Mother’ is widely
regarded as an aspect of Mephala. The way I see it, the assassins are just being
manipulated by the Webspinner, and the Daedroth needed a being to scapegoat, one
that does not have a voice of its own. The Sithis of the Dark Brotherhood is
hardly the Sithis of the Aurbis, it is merely a fabrication. Sithis is a void in
which nothing can ever be, and nothing will ever be, not the shepard for some
band of heathens. But, enough about nothing, open your books to chapter 12,
section 35: On the Nature of Trans-Kalpic Transportation…”

Arlowe sat at his desk and wrote and wrote. If he had nothing left to read, he
would leave others with new material. He had become fixated on Sithis. How can
nothing be? Wouldn’t the fact that the nothing is there mean that it is
something? Sithis is an identity, and an identity is something. How do we even
know this nothing exists?

There was a knock at the door.

And it was the last sound he ever heard.
