---
title: The Hist’s Disease
subtitle: An Analysis of the Knahaten Flu
reddit: 1vqsyv
author: xenoposeidon
date: 2014-01-21T06:37:55Z
about: |
  Hey guys, this is my (hopefully) much awaited post on the Knahaten Flu. This
  post was written (ironically, I might add) while I had a bit of a headache and
  as such may have some grammatical errors, which I apologies about. I’m a
  little sick of writing the same list of my sources on Hist-evolution and the
  Hist’s influence on Argonians and other Black Marsh creatures and whatnot, so
  just go [here][0] both for the sources and an explanation of many of the
  concepts mentioned below. Hope you enjoy (or cringe at the disturbing parts).
  Speaking of disturbing,

  **Parts of the below text may be found by some as highly gross and disturbing.
  The contents of the text are exactly what you’d expect to read in a post about
  a horrific disease, so do be warned.**

  [0]: ./1oqxtv
---

Let’s start off as straightforward and informative as we can, skip the whole
narratively written slow introduction that I’m so used to doing:

The Knahaten Flu is a Hist engineered RNA Virus resembling in basic behavior and
physicality as the real life influenza virus. The Knahaten Flu, which will in
the rest of this post be referred to as "KF", was created to isolate Black Marsh
biologically so that everything alive within the Marsh is under the influence of
the Hist. The Flu in its basic state causes an array of common symptoms that may
lead eventually to death; however the specific goal of the Hist was to sterilize
every un-influenced life form by manually Hist-Evolving young men, mer, and
un-influenced creatures to death using the virus as a way to access the DNA of
Men and Mer specimen. The Hist spread the disease through infecting influenced
wildlife and using it to attack and infect Men, Mer, and uninfluenced creatures.
Infected fish biologically manufactured to survive in waters of any condition
were used to infect beyond Black Marsh and remain in many parts of Tamriel after
the 2nd Era despite not being able to infect anymore. The Hist’s goal ended up
failing as Altmer were able to research the disease by examining discarded
infants.

There you go, I just summarized it all for you. If you’re uninterested feel free
to stop reading now, however below is further analysis and an explanation of my
reasoning for every one of the above points.

## Origin

Before becoming KF, the Flu was one of many viruses circulating around species
of Black Marsh. The Hist only noticed it when a particular strain of the disease
managed to infect some Argonians and mess up the flow of hormones and as such
screw up the Hist’s normal way of operating on a few young Argonians that caught
the disease and were unable to resist it. The Hist quickly and naturally
analyzed the disease to both its core logic and its infinite possibilities, and
through its calculations found that the disease is an acceptable agent for
achieving, or at least progressing towards one of the Hist’s top priorities,
being the creation of an ultimate stronghold in which the last of the Hist can
survive. By learning from errors done in attempting to combat the Ehlnofey’s
destruction over the course of the Ehlnofey wars and the Dwemer’s destruction of
the Hist, the Hist have reached a conclusion that a practical way of creating a
safe environment for the Hist’s survival is by biologically isolating the
safezone (Black Marsh) to a point where only species influenced or controlled by
the Hist can survive, as any uncontrolled specimen may inhibit traits allowing
for destruction of the Hist, such as the Old and Wandering Ehlnofey.

When the Hist analyzed the Flu, it found that with a few biological
manipulations it can be made into the perfect agent for the Hist’s isolation of
the safezone, as the Flu and its properties allows for easy access to another
creature’s DNA, which further allows the Hist to easily manipulate and
exterminate creatures not immediately within its influence. This calculation was
made by the Hist, and the Hist quickly made changes to the sap given to those
Argonians that were infected with the disease so that when an Argonian ingests
the sap, the sap not only morphs the Argonian into an Ehlnofey-like stature and
sentience, but is also included in the cells that are manipulated by and
reproduced in by the Flu, so that the new Flu virii are influenced and
controlled by the Hist’s Forced Evolution powers. The Hist then Force-evolved
the Virii so that they are more easily spread and have harsher symptoms, as well
as transmit the influence of the Hist’s forced evolution powers to any host the
virus infects. The Hist also made it so that the sap given to any young Argonian
contains biological instructions for the Argonian’s cells to be able to prevent
the Flu from infecting the Argonians, making it so that Argonians are completely
immune to the disease while all other creatures are not only easily infected but
can be Forced Evolved at the Hist’s influence as long as the host is infected.
The newly engineered disease is now the Knahaten Flu. Neat.

## Spread

Alright, so now we have an easily spreadable agent that lets the Hist play
around with a host’s DNA and physicality at will, now the Hist need the disease
to spread. Since the original Hosts of the disease are Argonians, and Argonians
are easily manipulative servants, the Hist’s uses Argonian agents to begin the
disease’s spread. The Hist begin shedding great amounts of sap and give Argonian
Treespeakers and Shamans visions and desires of bestowing the Hist’s gifts to
the animals of the Marsh, smearing sap on Fleshfly hives and putting sap in
ponds and streams with fish for the Hist to infect while performing bodily
rituals with the sap to infect it with the disease (See [Argonian Copulation
Manual][0]). The disease is spread via bodily exertion, sneezing, coughing, and
ritualistic spread of Hist sap to many a creature and Argonian. Particularly
noteworthy hosts are flying insects and fish, two types of creatures that the
Hist would later use a lot in spreading the disease. Flying insects such as
Fleshflies, mosquitoes, and various others are infected with the disease and
made so that almost any contact they make with another creature would spread the
disease further. The Hist also makes it so that sap ingested by insects makes
them a lot more aggressive and basically make it so that swarms of insects will
attack any non-Argonian with seemingly no reason other than pure aggression.
Insects begin biting, eating, and swarming non-Argonian creatures in the marsh,
particularly Kothringi villages. Kothringi villages are swarmed with fleshflies
and wasps and traders, explorers, and pirates of any race are attacked
immediately by any hive that finds them. The Hist is very quickly transmitted to
almost every creature in the Marsh and many beyond it. To reach areas that
insects native to Black Marsh would not normally reach, however, the Hist begin
utilizing waterways. The Hist infect many fish, however choose a particular
breed of carp as major host for infection. The Hist Force Evolves the carp so
that they are able to survive and thrive in almost any water conditions, and
adds certain alchemical ingredients and rich taste to them to make them more
appealing and productive. These fish begin spreading and swimming up streams and
coasts into many Tamrielic provinces and can now be found in waters as cold as
Skyrim’s and as far away as the Abacean. Argonian slaves and dock workers see
these fish as a gift from the Hist and name them Histcarp. However, these fish
are eaten by certain animals Men and Mer hunt, as well as the Men and Mer
themselves, and when they do the disease finds its way into faraway Ehlnofeyic
beings and begins spreading even further. Quickly enough, the KF becomes a
pandemic and spreads to every part of Tamriel.

## Symptoms and Effects

Now that the disease is widely spread, its effects kick in. First come the Flu’s
normal yet strengthened symptoms. The KF’s infected cells create massive amounts
of Cytokines and basically bugger up the Host’s body’s natural processes
resulting in sever lack of health and an array of different uncomfortable
symptoms from inflammation to aches to constant coughing, fever, fatigue, and
many more. These can and do kill many hosts, however they are not the primary
symptom that is created and used by the Hist. After all, many or perhaps most
Hosts may be far away from the safezone and as such the Hist may have difficulty
influencing them, not that the Hist have no need to manually kill all
un-influenced creatures but rather render them sterile. In order to do so, the
Hist must infect and target the most physically weak and easily adaptable
specimen. The disease spreads to many young men and Mer both originally and from
their parents. Then, instead of attempting to find and do new, difficult
physical adaptations, the Hist simply does to young Men and Mer the opposite of
what it does to young Argonians. It de-humanizes them, literally. The Hist make
it so that fetuses are completely unable to evolve and remain in a semi-living
and inhuman form, as well as deforms and kills young hosts in visually atrocious
and painful ways. This results in a plague absolutely horrifying and seemingly
unstoppable, killing many and causing extinction to some.

## Failure and Treatment

The plague spreads and the Hist have created a disease so atrocious it is
remembered throughout history and causes massive hate for the Argonians who are
blamed by many for the disease. The Hist believe that their calculations were
perfect and the plan is working, however they make one error and fail to
recognize the ingenuity and unpredictability of Men and Mer. The Altmer, who are
repulsed by impurity and are thought to discard infants before even the arrival
of the plague, quickly make point of discarding infected infants and immediately
set to study the disease and how to combat it. Psijics and scholars of the
Crystal Tower examine infants and research magic that can combat the disease,
and manage to create spells capable of neutralizing the disease. The Altmer
quickly set to treat any that are infected, and in doing so gain the trust of
other races and spread ideas of purity and prevention that improve the hygiene
of the Tamrielic races. Meanwhile the Hist is astounded and unable to respond to
the change of events due to it still thinking that its calculations are correct.
The Hist attempts to go around the Altmer’s magic by making an array of
corrections and evolutions to the virus, however in doing so disables certain
previous symptoms and renders the disease useless. Outside of Black Marsh the
plague comes to a halt and within it different strains with radically different
symptoms can be found and the Hist loses control of the disease. The remaining
strains of the disease make up many of the diseases that can be found in Black
Marsh and are feared all the way up to the 4th era, and while the pandemic is
stopped, the Knahaten Flu is remembered in history as the greatest plague and
one of the most terrible catastrophes in Tamriel’s history.

> Comments and criticisms welcome. I’m known to unknowingly put some personal
> bias in my writing and assume people understand certain concepts they don’t,
> which I apologies about. If you need an explanation of any of the concepts in
> the text feel free to ask. If you take issue with the style this text was
> written in or its information do tell me so. Edits may be done later on
> accordingly.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}

[0]: https://monkeytruth.net/forum/index.php?topic=18.0
