---
title: Meridia’s House of Troubles
reddit: 1w4v5w
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2014-01-25T19:34:00Z
---

The Astronomical definition of a **meridian** according to Wikipedia is:

> A meridian is the great circle passing through the celestial poles and the
> zenith of a particular location.

The Wayward Solar Daughter.

Banned from Aetherius for “consorting with illicit spirits”.

This piece will present some linkages between Meridia and some unsavory types,
and how her imprisonment is tragic and sad, both in the callousness of her
Father, and in its probable inevitability across Kalpas.

What are the celestial poles in this case? One is obvious: the Magnus-shaped
hole her father made at the moment of creation when he changed his mind and
fled. (The Sun).

What is the other pole?

Perhaps, since her Father was decidedly Anuic, it would be a similar Padomaic
hole?

Like the Sithis-shaped hole that was created when Lorkhan was killed?
Sheogorath.

She is the Infinite Light/Energy trapped between the Architect and the Madman.
And in the typical manner of the unfair parent, her father never forgave her for
her nature.

Next, let me ask you, what is an echo without sound? Nothing. What is a
reflection without light? Also nothing.

The Adjacent Places, reflections of the world of the Mundus. Not true creations,
more like reflections of creation. And importantly, like an reflection can be
burned onto a retina after a prolonged exposure to a light image, The Adjacent
Places can be even after the World-Eater has consumed the original creation that
gave rise to their reflection. And while they may not necessarily be the domain
of Meridia, they are the result of Meridia’s existence.

CONJECTURE TIME: There is a connection between Grabbers and Leaper Demons at
the very least. I am starting to think they are the same.

The Leaper Demon King and the Greedy Man would ferret away pieces of previous
Kalpas in the Adjacent Places, where Alduin/Aka could not find them.

Did she help the Leaper Demon King/Mehrunes Dagon? Or did he and Lorkhan take
advantage of what was already there? It’s not important, for in the manner
typical of unfair parents, her Father never forgave her for this, either.

Now let us discuss her most famous/infamous enigma, and my longest walk with
Meridia: her Champion, Umaril the Unfeathered, half-elven, of a divine father
“from a previous Kalpa’s World-River”.

Now where would we find a Divine Father from a previous Kalpa’s World-River?
Didn’t Alduin eat everything before the most recent Convention?

Well, not really, because LDK hid a bunch of pieces, remember?

Oh and we have precedent in terms of Divine things that surface in other Kalpas,
as demonstrated by The Ruddy Man, an aspect of another corner of Meridia’s House
of Troubles, Molag Bal.

Fret not, fellow scolars, for I have a better idea for the Father of Umaril than
Bal. However, The Ruddy Man’s memories, like LDK’s, may have helped Meridia in
her quest for a Champion.

But Molag Bal would not share such precious information for free. Surely the
Prince of domination would demand a price. The Designs for Coldharbour perhaps?
Who better to assist in modeling a plane of Oblivion after Nirn than the
daughter of the Architect? Maybe Mankar Camoran was simply over-generalising,
not not totally incorrect.

Now before we talk about the Paternity of her Champion, let us discuss Meridia’s
anger. So we have well established that she grieves her father’s absence and was
not totally in control of the reasons that made him angry, but that his initial
overreaction to her original sin drove her deeper into sin.

Shunned by the Aedra, she was left only with those in Oblivion to conspire.
Being her father’s daughter, she would also have some capacity for spiteful
anger, and grew bitter in her sorrow. Like father like daughter, she also, on a
separate note, detests “false life”.

Let’s talk Pelinal, Champion of Man and the Divines. Decidedly not undead, and
we have evidence he is from the 9th era, the distant future of this
much-too-long Kalpa.

A Myth-echo. Some people say robot. I say Mirror. He is some kind of
time-travelling meta-mirror zapped back through Time and aimed at Aka(tosh).

“O Aka, for our shared madness I do this! I watch you watching me back! Umaril
Dares call us out, for that is how we made him!”

Pelinal also “erased those lands from the maps of elves and men”. Who else can
do such things? Alduin, aspect of Aka(tosh).

Who would better recognise a reflection of Time, an imitation of
Aka(tosh)/Alduin than the light that is the origin of all reflections?

Perhaps it is Pelinal she hates for being a false Time God. Perhaps it is the
paradox he creates she despises. Or maybe it’s the fact that he hails from the
9th era of a Kalpa that goes on much too long. He is a shard of a Kalpa on life
support.

Perhaps her contact with the Sithis-hole (Sheogorath) also makes her slightly
irrational at times, and gives her an arbitrary idea of legitimate life.

“Umaril dares call us out, for that is how we made him!” ‘We’ being
Akatosh/Pelinal, and perhaps all the Divines that blessed him as their Champion.
Umaril is proud and vengeful, hateful of the Divines, and calls out their
Champion, knowing how to provoke their madness.

Who else would have a terrible beef about the Divines? Who would the Divines
have made into a prideful tool of vengeance? Who would be one spirit in all the
Aurbis who would know the grief and anger of Meridia, the wayward solar
daughter? Who would be offended by this echo of Aka, the Champion of the Divines
and Man? And who would have such an intimate knowledge of Pelina’s nature as to
know how to provoke him to madness?

Malacath/Trinimac, the old Champion, of course. I propose to you that
Malacath/Trinimac is the progenitor of Umaril the Unfeathered, or at least a
memory of Trinimalacath from another Kalpa, retrieved with the help of Mehrunes
Dagon, Molag Bal and maybe just a touch of Sheogorath.

Now Malacath, already having lost a son to betrayal by Sheogorath, only agreed
to the use of his issue if he could be made immortal. No problem, says Meridia,
and binds Umaril to her plane of Oblivion.

Sheogorath, Mehrunes Dagon, Molag Bal and Malacath.

> This is all quite rough, and actually came about while writing a piece on
> Kynareth/Kyne, which I will hopefully post soon.
>
> I have some tentative notes that may actually place Meridia as somewhat of a
> darling among the daedra, but it’s not as relevant to this piece and I’m tired
> now.
>
> happy readings, looking forward to your comments, if any!

{:tag="aside" .afterword}
