---
series: SpaceTime in Aurbis
part: 2
title: AkaLorkh as Spacetime
subtitle: Two Sides of the Same Coin
reddit: 1w616i
author: FranklyEarnest
date: 2014-01-26T03:27:49Z
---

This is a follow-up to my last [post][0]. I plan on highlighting a few points I
seemed to have missed due to my annoying fever.

Anu/Aka is (I AM) Time, Padhome/Lorkhan is (I AM NOT) Space[^1]. As a combined
entity, which I’ve taken to calling AkaLorkh, we have the fabric of Mundus known
as Spacetime (I AM AND AM NOT). In our universe’s physics, this is the dynamical
background on which everything unfolds. Since it is a such a general concept, we
can expect the same to be true of spacetime in Mundus. Evidence from my previous
post suggests that the framework of General Relativity, in which curvature of
spacetime results in what we perceive as gravity, should apply to Mundus. This
is consistent with Lorkhan’s plan: after all, what better force than gravity,
the fundamental merger between these polar Aedra, to keep Mundus self-contained?

This provides a further link between Aka and Lorkhan, and perhaps may provide
some insight as to why it is not so hard to Break the Dragon. GR states that
space and time can combine and mesh depending on mass and curvature; what way to
take Aka’s insanity to the limit than further melting him with Lorkhan? I AM AND
AM NOT leads into WE ARE I AM I AM NOT ARE WE NOT I AM I AM ad absurdum.

By assuming the machinery of GR, we can expect all the consequences of GR to
show up. Therefore, I’d like to present three ideas that naturally generalize
some notions from the previous thread:

1. Mundus is contained within a [event horizon][1], potentially that of a black
   hole. In other words, we can consider Nirn to contain some kind of
   gravitational disturbance at its core, and Aetherius to be on the
   ever-unreachable “exterior”. The tears left in the boundary fabric can be
   thought of then as white holes, spewing energy as light, magicka, and creatia
   from Aetherius. This potentially provides an [iterative][2] counterpoint to
   Mundus’s black hole nature.

1. Moving at relativistic speeds (close to the speed of light) would cause space
   and time to locally combine through [shearing][3], causing AkaLorkh to
   contract and merge even closer together. This mainly disturbs the Dragon,
   whom in turn forces you to slow down by emitting [gravitational waves][4]
   (ripples in AkaLorkh’s bulk). In fact, it is impossible for any
   massive/material object to go faster than the speed of light. I conjecture
   that forcing a material object to go at the speed of light, whether by
   magicka or some other physical mechanism^(quantum?), will necessarily create
   a Dragon Break[^2].

1. Light moves… well, at the speed of light. It is massless within our world[^3]
   and presumably Mundus. In addition, it perceives all of its surroundings as a
   single spacetime point. Said differently: light will travel on AkaLorkh’s
   fabric, but passes through it instantaneously from its own reference point,
   so it does not Break the Dragon in traveling fast. Light does not think it is
   affected by Mundus, but observers in Mundus know differently. Light is
   affected by the distortions in spacetime [in][5] [myriad][6] [ways][7].
   Within TES universe, light is the remnant of plane(t)s/beings that have
   presumably escaped AkaLorkh’s bulk, by ripping past the Aetherial event
   horizon at Mundus’s edge. With this framework, we can think of light as the
   remnants of the Magne-Ge, leaking through the white hole punctures in
   spacetime.

> As always, comments and feedback are appreciated! My next post will be on the
> Magne-Ge, and how they fit within this framework on the other side of Mundus’s
> event horizon.
>
> ----
>
> Some clarifications after a conversation with /u/sperry45959:
>
> - Black hole thermodynamics may or may not apply here; after all, it is a
>   conjectural notion even in our Universe. Resolving the exact structure of
>   black holes would require a full theory of quantum gravity, which we don’t
>   have. From just GR, a being in Aetherius would not be able to communicate
>   with anything in Mundus without traveling through an appropriate wormhole
>   first. Also, if the AdS/CFT conjecture in string theory is valid, then I
>   suspect that Aetherial denizens would see the bulk of Mundus as if it were
>   living on the surface of the black hole (so Aetherius would be a higher
>   dimensional place).
>
> - No matter can travel at the speed of light locally; this is true regardless
>   of whether gravitational waves are present. This is fundamentally imposed by
>   the notion of spacetime.
>
> - Technically speaking, gravitational waves are only emitted when there exists
>   a varying quadrupole mass distribution; any realistic, uneven object on Nirn
>   would have a non-zero quadrupole (or higher) moment.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}

[0]: ./1w3qni
[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event_horizon
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turtles_all_the_way_down#Origin
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shear_stress#Pure_shear
[4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_waves#Sources_of_gravitational_waves
[5]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_deflection_of_light#Deflection_of_light_by_the_Sun
[6]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_redshift
[7]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_lensing#History

[^1]: See [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1w616i/akalorkh_as_spacetime_two_sides_of_the_same_coin/cez4y7j) comment below.

[^2]: I suspect this might go deeper, perhaps even relating to the Godhead, but
I’ll let more knowledgeable scholars conjecture on that.

[^3]: We could interpret this to mean that it is not subject to Y’ffre’s Mass.
