---
title: Conjecturing Familiars
subtitle: The Origins of Ahnurr, Fadomai and the Khajiit
reddit: 1w873x
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2014-01-26T22:32:39Z
---

So we all agree that we had Anu and Padomay, Is and Is Not, all that fun stuff.

And then we have the separate but philosophically distinct Khajiiti Pantheon. We
can be quick to dismiss them but they seem very important to creation, being a
people and a Tower and holders of many secrets.

So Anu and Padomay fought, they fought over Nir, always unhappy.

So once Anu and Nir got the hang of creating, I propose that one of the first
beings they created was a companion for Anu, and because mercy and compassion
still dwelt in her heart, Nir also offered a companion to Padomay.

When Anu first whispered his name to his companion, it purred with joy and
echoed “Ahnurr”. And the cat was male like, Anu, because it pleased Anu to have
a companion like him.

When Padomay first whispered his name to his companion, she purred with joy and
echoed “Fadomai”. And the cat was female, because it pleased Padomay to have a
companion different from him. It also pleased Padomay that Fadomai would never
feel his pain or loss, because within his Fadomai, there was already Nirni, and
until Fadomai died, she would always have Nirni.

The constant fighting between Anu and Padomay did make them sad, so they wished
it that their companions get along, and Ahnurr and Fadomai did get along, for
the most part.

Ahnurr and Fadomai wished to provide such excellent companions for the children
of Anu and Padomay, so they created Alkosh, Lorkhaj, Khenarthi etc.

Like any good feline, Ahnurr and Fadomai felt they owned all of creation, that
it was never “given” to them by their creators, that is a misunderstanding. All
of creation belonged to them from the beginning, it is an illusion that the Gods
of pure Mer and Men think they own a single thing before the great cats.

And like any ardent cat lovers, the gods were on equal footing with their cats,
their partners, part of who they were. A child will grow to leave the home, but
a cat is there until the cat is ready to leave.

As such when history was written, the cats were considered no different from the
Ehlnofey, except that they knew they were better, deep down inside, but they
kept this a secret, because the children of Anu and Padomay could be so
sensitive about being inferior.

Like any loyal companion, they stayed near their keepers, making sure they did
not get in any trouble without them, and their actions were in harmony. But
because the cats were not given to self reflection, they realised that on the
mortal plane, there were no creatures to match their splendour and make sure the
two-legged bald ones were kept out of trouble.

Clever Azurah remembered a secret told to her by Fadomai before she died, and
sneaked down to the mortal plane to give ideal form to some creations of Nir and
Nirni.

And that is how I tied together the Khajiit and the rest of Man and Mer without
denying their separate creation myths.

Also, I own 2 cats, and this is how they make me feel.
