---
title: Dragon Break Dynamics
subtitle: Jills and Quantum Mechanics
reddit: 1we5j6
author: FranklyEarnest
date: 2014-01-28T19:13:09Z
---

The entity we know as spacetime can be thought of as maddened fusion of Aka and
Lorkhan, written AkaLorkh for short. As conjectured in a [previous post][0],
Dragon Breaks occur from pushing Lorkhan and Aka too close together;
[Mannimarco’s statement][1] supports this notion by listing the Shezzarines.
Within a relativistic framework, squashing Aka and Lorkhan together can be
accomplished by pushing a material object to the speed of light, forcing space
and time to become null.

In this post, I will attempt to highlight some of the inner mechanics of Dragon
Breaks. [The full explanation requires introducing quantum mechanical notions
into the picture][2], as no material object can travel at the speed of light
within the framework of GR: the theory, much like Aka himself, fails miserably
at doing its job in this limit. Before we begin, I’d like to point out a few
interesting facts regarding Dragon Breaks:

- They are purely localized in Space.

- Everything and nothing happens all at once over a span of (potentially
  instantaneous) eons. This is the state of the causality-free Dawn, most likely
  dual to the state of Untime in Aetherius. Outside the region of the Break,
  Time continues to flow linearly.

- The Jills patch up the mess, leading to potential inconsistencies. The bigger
  the Break, the longer they take to fix it.

The above notions strongly suggest that a Dragon Break occurs when Aka’s psyche
doubts its existence, Echoing his higher gradient in the process. This madness
manifests as Time becoming completely traversable, just like any other Spatial
dimension. Since causality is out the window, Time becomes another axis which is
fully accessible to everyone localized in the Break.

This is exactly analogous to what happens to quantum particles in the
[sum-over-histories][3] interpretation of quantum mechanics. A quantum system
goes from point A to B by taking all possible paths through spacetime at once,
and the resulting history of [worldlines][4] is an entangled, knotted mess of
every possible spacetime trajectory. Quantum dynamics are extracted from this
process by assigning a value to each path called a [phase][5]. This phase is an
angle, and is deeply tied to wave mechanics, and is correlated to the
[likelihood of a specific path][6] occurring. When one takes the final quantum
mechanical calculation to compute the resulting trajectory, one multiplies all
paths by their corresponding phases; summing the resultant products leads to the
final quantized worldline composed of the most likely possibilities.

How does this translate to a Dragon Break? Within the region of Broken Dragon,
all possible trajectories going from the time just before the Break until the
time after occur. The Jills arrive on the scene to cure Aka’s madness, and need
to un-knot the tangle of worldlines within the region. They do so by treating
the worldlines, AkaLorkh’s very fibers, as waves, reducing them to another
Sensorial perception like Color and Sound. The Jills compute the probabilities
of each path existing, and attach a phase to them. Worldline waves that are more
coherent or closer to each other add constructively and reinforce each other’s
existences, while wildly different histories cancel through destructive
interference. Once the sum-over-histories is computed, the Jills consolidate the
timeline into its final result, allowing the wounded AkaLorkh to continue its
task. The severity of the Break determines how much each possible event
interferes with the other events nearby. The resulting timeline is one that is
as consistent as possible from an outside perspective; those involved in the
Break will have conflicting memories of what happened, and even of how their
lives compared before and after the Break.

Spoken differently, Time, in becoming a fully accessible dimension, becomes
another Sense, and the mortals of Nirn are able to experience it (not
comprehend, mind you) in its full glory: madness bestowed by Aka’s broken mind
within AkaLorkh. Overall, it can be characterized by corresponding Sensory
frequencies and phases associated to significant timelines. Moving out of the
Break requires the transition back to the classical (non-quantum) realm,
naturally implying the Jills to be quantum worldline mergers and observers,
associated with the Feynman Path Integral as [*h* → 0][7].

> As always, comments and feedback are appreciated!
>
> EDIT: I just wanted to add a few clarifications after a conversation with
> /u/sperry45959.
>
> - Strictly speaking in terms of our universe’s Physics, we are doing a quantum
>   gravitational calculation here, so the significance of a wavefunction is
>   sketchy at best. Within the Dragon Break, the time operator is not unitary,
>   so things like Schrödinger’s Equation wouldn’t hold within. Fundamentally,
>   this all due to the fact that we are taking a path integral of spacetime
>   itself, along with everything living on it.
>
> - The above point implies that the Jills would require some
>
> - Having a mass moving at the speed of light is not possible within our world,
>   and I conjectured above that it would take some type of magicka to make it
>   occur. How magicka could make this happen is still an open question.
>   Conjectures:
>   1. it can be achieved with a spell,
>   1. Y’ffre’s mass-imbuing Earthbone can be made to vanish locally, and/or
>   1. a strong concentration of Lorkhan’s divine influence is required to make
>      it happen.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}

[0]: ./1w616i
[1]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Where_Were_You_…_Dragon_Broke
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Propagator#Faster_than_light.3F
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sum_over_histories
[4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Worldline
[5]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phase_\(waves\)#Formula
[6]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sum_over_histories#Feynman.27s_interpretation
[7]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Correspondence_principle#Quantum_mechanics
