---
title: On the Walkabout
reddit: 1wehbi
author: Ushnad_gro-Udnar
date: 2014-01-28T21:01:02Z
about: |
  Greetings all. Decided to do a little something on what exactly the Walkabout
  is and this is what I came up with. It’s rough I’m sure and I may re-write it
  to make it more coherent (I have a very bad tendency to write in a stream of
  thought style and sometimes forget to connect dots that I connected in my head
  and thought the connections seemed obvious or just ramble). As always I
  welcome all critiques and input. I hope you enjoy it and thanks for taking the
  time to read.
---

Redguard mythology is very unique among those found on Tamriel. Like the Dunmer
they take a radical turn from their cousins and have a different stance on the
Lorkhan Question as well. The Dunmer are Padhomaic among largely Anuic Mer and
the Redguards are Anuic among Padhomaic Men. Redguards agree with the Altmer
that this plane, Mundus, is a prison that needs to be escaped. They also agree
with the Dunmer that it is a test. Why are the Redguards such an outlier? Why do
they not fall in line with their fellow Man (well besides Bretons)? Part of this
can be explained by their removal from Tamriel for longer than any other race
but it goes a bit deeper than that. Let’s begin by looking at Redguard culture.

I have discussed the importance of martial prowess in Redguard culture before
but let’s look at the other thing every Yokudan worth the name loves; sailing.
Yokudans are known as by far the greatest sailors in Tamriel and one would be
hard pressed to find a ship that doesn’t have at least one on it if they aren’t
the captain, which is more often than not. Now in order to be a good sailor you
have to know more than just carpentry and when to pull what rope, that’s why we
have Nords to boss around, remember? What’s far more important is navigation.
The seas of Tamriel are a tricky place after all, what with maelstroms and coral
villages of slug people and dreugh it can be downright deadly. And how does one
navigate the treacherous seas of Nirn? Well by star constellations of course
(one might want to familiarize themselves with [The Firmament][0] if one has
not). Constellations in the night sky of Nirn move in predictable patterns much
like they do here on good ole Earth. Stars don’t help Yokudans navigate just the
waters though, stars were placed by Tall Papa in order to help lesser spirits
navigate their way to the Far Shores, or Aetherius. The stars represent the
proper way to do things and serve as a sort of road map.

So what are the stars? Well, they are holes ripped in the fabric of Oblivion
that separates the Mundus from Aetherius, allowing some of the pure magical
energy of that realm to seep into ours. They were ripped by the Magna-ge, the
followers of Magnus when they all left Mundus, the hole Magnus made is now the
sun. Ruptga is a mixture of Magnus and Aka/Auri-el/Bormahu or whatever you feel
like calling the Time God today so his connection to stars makes sense. He is
also prime in the Yokudan pantheon, one that is muddled with so many gods that
they have a god of We-Have-Too-Many-Gods. Most other pantheons on Tamriel have
some extra gods other than the 8 or 9 we discuss here but nothing close to the
number of the Redguards. Now, have you ever looked up on a clear night in
Tamriel? There’s a hell of a lot of stars up there huh? That, is the Redguard
pantheon. Literally. They worship the Magna-ge. Some Aedra, or their versions of
some Aedra as well, but the important inclusion is the Magna-ge.

So they worship the Magna-ge and stars are therefore very important to them.
They help them navigate, got it. Now, the stars were meant as a roadmap to reach
the Far Shores, something that both Magnus and the Magna-ge did pre-Convention
(some of you may know where I am going). Mantling is the act of “walk like them
until they must walk like you”. It is copying a person so perfectly that you
become them. The Redguards want to “walkabout like them until we join them”. Now
they couldn’t all collectively mantle Magnus, that would be just silly. What
they can do is mantle and join the Magna-ge. How you may ask? The answer is in
the stars. Not some secret code but the stars themselves, the flight of the
Magne-Ge from Mundus. You know, kinda like that whole fleeing from Yokuda (a
relatively normal place) to Tamriel (a mythically important and magically
drenched place). But they didn’t make it, obviously. Why? It’s who they
followed, or didn’t for that matter. The Ra’Gada came here before any leaders,
they did it in the reverse. While that may in itself be a process of ascension
(pet theory) it clearly didn’t work. So until the right situation arises,
Redguards will have to keep looking at the stars and kicking everyone else’s
butts all over Tamriel.

Yeah, I said it.

[0]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Firmament
