---
series: "On Rebellion: A History of Uprisings in Tamriel"
part: 1
title: The Anvil Commune
reddit: 1wx0i7
author: notmyfavouritehat
date: 2014-02-03T19:35:11Z
about: |
  This submission is my first, so please let me know if anything isn’t
  lore-friendly/if I should continue this volume. I thought I’d take a bit of
  minutia, i.e. the background from the Thieves Den DLC, and run with it. A lot
  of this is a mix of medieval politics, Italian Renaissance intrigue, and
  labour history – hopefully it makes a compelling mix!
---

Anvil is well known for the dark secrets it hides between the squalid seaside
shacks that crowd its murky ports. But the darkest of places sometimes hold the
brightest gems; sometimes, it may hide a whole host of gleaming jewels, hidden
in the muck. The tale of the Anvil Commune provides ample evidence of this
truth.

The story of Commodore Fasil Umbranox is well known among the citizens of Anvil
today, as it is known with dread in the hearts of pirates who seek to assail the
Gold Coast. By wiping clean the threat of piracy from the waters of Anvil,
Umbranox was granted rights to seize the throne of Castle Anvil from Proditus
Proventius.

Although a commander without compare on the high seas, examination of the
historical record seems to indicate that his administration on land was less
than spectacular. Little of the record from those long-past days remains, as
many of the scrolls in the Castle’s chancery having been eroded by the salty air
(or, perhaps, destroyed by unscrupulous Chancellors). It is known, however, by
comparing fragments from the Castle chancery to Imperial Census and Excise
documents, that the reign of Fasil Umbranox was only moderately successful at
best.

The balance of trade shifted towards imports in grain as tenant farmers hoarded
their harvest following a crop failure west of the Heartlands. This was a drain
on city coffers, in spite of the increased traffic to the Anvil port. Taking
advantage of the new administration’s reorganization, it seems that there was
widespread under-reporting of taxable incomes. Regardless, the best preserved
documents of that era report that the new Count was well loved by Anvil’s
citizenry, due in no small part to a near complete decline in piracy and
criminal activity along the Anvil docks.

Count Fasil’s successor, Baszario Umbranox, was much less successful in holding
together the city. Within a mere 35 years, the dynasty’s rule over Anvil was
showing signs of strain. Income under-reporting, before an unorganized activity
taken on by profiteering merchants, became an organized racket, allegedly
administrated by local Thieves Guild underbosses. Without the gold for guards to
patrol the countryside (and collect rent from tenant farmers), the land around
the Gold Coast became rife with banditry, while the people of Anvil began to
feel deep pangs of hunger. In addition to these crises, Baszario, by all
accounts, was a foppish decadent whose lavish parties painted a poor portrait
against the background of an incompetent administration.

The hammer would fall upon the Umbranox family following a work stoppage by
Anvil’s dockworkers. The Anvil Harbour Office, an administration created by
Fasil Umbranox to place docks under public control, was responsible for the
hiring and payroll of all dockworkers in Anvil. This policy vastly reduced
incidences of stolen cargo and pirate attacks, as private dockworkers often had
incentive to divulge manifests and shipping dates to informants. It did,
however, make all dockworkers employees of the county, and after a full two
months of delayed payroll, Anvil’s dockworkers placed a stoppage on all
unloading and loading of cargo.

Fallout from the work stoppage proved disastrous. The Count, declaring martial
law, made a fiery speech about the role of Argonian upstarts in inciting the
work stoppage. Violence against foreigners increased; even the head of the Anvil
Mage’s Guild, Tar-Rafee, was found impaled upon the Guildgate, with
anti-Argonian profanities written on the wood in her own blood. Despite
increased violence by guards loyal to the Count’s inner circle, dockworkers
assembled outside the Chapel of Dibella, intent on presenting a formal petition
to Umbranox. In perhaps the bloodiest event of Anvil’s history, the Chapelgate
Affair, the Count ordered his most loyal personal guards to use lethal force
against the convergence. This day, 26^th^ of Last Seed, 3E 305, was the true
beginning of the Anvil Commune.

The slaughter at Chapelgate became a rebellion when young, idealistic mages from
the Guild sought to exact their revenge for the murder of Tar-Rafee. In a
torrent of fire and lightning the guards were routed back to the Castle, as
priests from the Chapel tended to the wounded with their magick. Although his
name is lost to time, the most unlikely man, a devout of Dibella and the primate
of Anvil’s Chapel, was the one who organized the rabble into a force with a
cause. Calling upon the love of citizens to each other, and citing the Count’s
utter lack of love towards his subjects, he declared that Anvil was divinely
prophesied to become autonomous; a true city of the Divines’ love. With a roar,
the citizens of Anvil marched upon the castle gates.

The battle for Castle Anvil has not been well recorded, but it is known that
much of the guard not directly responsible to the Count sided with the people of
Anvil. They stormed the great hall and quickly overpowered the personal guard
which had only just escaped the magefire outside. Baszario was found in bed with
a Bosmer consort, entirely oblivious to the chaos he had created with his order
mere hours before. He was hung naked from the highest tower of Castle Anvil, and
the commune was declared.

The first act of the commune was to dedicate the entire city to the worship of
Dibella and all of the Divines, in order to solidify the religious justification
for the revolt against Anvil’s legitimate lord. A great council emerged from the
wealthiest merchants and guild leaders, along with a petty council representing
the dockworkers and labourers of the cities underclasses. The unnamed priest of
Dibella became the unofficial spiritual leader of the city, and came to dominate
the councils with his forceful personality. Emissaries were sent to the forts
around Anvil held by the city guard, who quickly marked their banners with
symbols of Dibella. A diplomat by the name of Silenus Varian was dispatched to
seek escort to the Imperial City by the legion in order to negotiate terms that
would grant Anvil the status of free city within the Empire.

Negotiations on behalf of the people of Anvil, however, were in vain. Emperor
Uriel VI, eager to leave his mark upon history, had not yet been granted full
license to rule by the Elder Council. They roundly rejected the proposal to
allow Anvil commune status, but wished to avoid additional bloodshed. They
proposed a city-wide amnesty for the rebels if Baszario’s brother, Sergius, was
immediately reinstated as Count and all popular councils dismantled and banned.

Upon hearing the news, the great council readily accepted the terms, but the
petty council was pushed to reject the terms by the city’s spiritual leader. The
great council was arrested on suspicion of treason against the commune, and the
primate of Dibella had himself elevated to the position of Lord Mayor Protector.
This proved to be highly unpopular, as arrest of the great council was enough to
convince most Imperial citizens that the commune was simply mob rule. Indeed,
many of the testimonies given at the open sessions of the petty council indicate
that the citizens of Anvil felt very much the same way.

The final nail in the coffin of Anvil’s commune, however, came when Relandel, a
senior member of the Elder Council and an influential theologian, pressured the
young emperor to place an interdict upon the entire city of Anvil, effectively
excluding it from the Imperial Cult. The prominence of Dibella worship above
that of the Divines equally was declared a heresy. Admittedly one-sided reports
of tainted rituals to Dibella were disseminated as evidence of the impiety of
Anvil’s commune, including descriptions of acts which remain far too tasteless
to be rewritten here.

The Legion would arrive at the gates of Anvil the spring of the following year,
magefire battering the Guildgate and Imperial Navy gallies filling the docks
with soldiers. The great and petty councils were tried and summarily executed by
General Meridius, their bodies subject to the same fate as the former Count and
their heads being sent to adorn the walls of the Imperial City. The primate of
Dibella was burned in front of the Chapel, his last screams being a curse
against the Empire, Anvil, and all those who had prevented his holy reign. Mixed
reports would follow of unburnt relics to be found in the ashes; given that the
priest’s name was officially redacted from all written sources by Imperial
order, it is unlikely we will ever know whether this is true.

Sergius Umbranox would be crowned the new Count of Anvil, and the Imperial
Legion would be the guarantors of the city’s security until a new force of city
guards could be recruited. For virtually all of Sergius’ twenty years as Count
Anvil, the city would rely heavily upon Imperial subsidy in order to maintain
order and keep the harbour open to commerce.

_Roscius Corvanus, 4E202_
