---
title: A Differing Perspective on Towers and Thalmor
reddit: 1x2l6j
author: ginja_ninja
date: 2014-02-05T10:05:34Z
---

So /u/MKirkbride’s short and mysterious post about the Thalmor “winning in the
end” has stirred up a lot of talk around here, and continuing speculation about
how they’re going to destroy the world by destroying the Towers. [This is
really, really ironic considering the intended subject matter of my question
that MK posted that answer in his AMA to.][0] Literally my exact point there was
an attempt to highlight how nonsensically unrelated everything we know about the
concept of Towers and what the Thalmor are all about appear to be to each other.
I feel it maybe deserves going into more detail over, so I’ll outline my exact
thoughts, theories, and speculation on the subject:

The reason the Towers were built, according to Nu-Mantia Intercept, was to
establish ownership of the world and stability of existence. They were built by
the Aldmer specifically to reconstruct and emulate the hierarchical, ordered
societies of their spirit progenitors. A structure to look upon and say, “This
is the symbol of the powers-that-be. Its builders are our lords.” The original
purpose of Lorkhan’s trap in Nirn was to tear down this hierarchy and give all
spirits an equal chance to shape their own fate. Nothing was built, everything
was chaotic and natural. The Aldmeri construction of Towers in imitation of
Ada-Mantia was a refutation of this sentiment. A stark, alien, geometrical
contrast to the natural landscape, jutting out of the ground and forming a nexus
of tradition that society would invariably coalesce and evolve in the shadow of
(*aad semblio*).

The Towers are not what ended the spirit realm. So why would destroying them
re-establish it? The goal of the Thalmor is to revert their existence into the
dominion of Anuiel. The thing that the Towers are guarding is the reversion of
Nirn into its primordial state when it was ruled by Lorkhan, a Wild West of
sorts with no rhyme, reason, or order. “The House of Sithis."

To further substantiate this, let’s look at the game most directly related to
the destruction of a Tower and its main architect: Oblivion and Mehrunes Dagon.
We **know,** *from the central plot of an entire Elder Scrolls game,* that Dagon
wants to bring White-Gold down. Why? **Because he wants to tear down the**
**aedric hierarchy and revert Tamriel to its primordial state as the dominion**
**realm of Lorkhan.** Now why would the Thalmor of all organizations, the most
bitter ancient enemies of all things Padomaic and Shezzarite, share this goal?
Why did they fight and die in a futile attempt to defend Crystal-Like-Law from
Dagon’s hordes instead of reinforcing them on the battlefield?

**Because destroying the Towers does not give the Thalmor what they want.**

Nirn/Tamriel was created to give Lorkhan the wandering spirit his own realm to
preside over. He did this by stealing the power of the scions of Anuiel and
using it to shape the mortal plane. The first Tower landed on Tamriel at
Balfiera as the antithesis of the unstable realm of the Arena. Undeniable in its
image and presence, an assault of aetherial engineering upon the House of
Sithis, it served as a meeting place for spirits to record themselves in a
controlled, static, environment, and determine fate in a way possible nowhere
and nowhen else in the Dawn. After time solidified, the descendants of Anuiel
began to build their own towers as a way of reestablishing the power that had
been stolen from them through an emulation of the ancient order and law their
spirit society had operated under, and to show that it made them dominant over
those who were incapable of the same feats of engineering, whom they considered
beasts and savages.

To try and put this in the simplest terms possible, let’s just envision two
directions: down and up. Lorkhan destroyed the spirit realm and bled Aetherius
to create the world, sending all the spirits downwards from their high stations
into mortality so that the lesser ones might be free from the rule of the
greater. Dagon’s invasion was an emulation of this to tear down the false realm
the Aedra and, by inheritance of conquest, the Empire had set up on Lorkhan’s
grave. The goal of the Anuic forces is to build themselves back up from this
lower position to a state of immortality far more advanced than their current
state, the reconstruction of the spirit realm of Anuiel and re-establishment of
what they consider to be the rightful hierarchy of spirits. Ancestrally, the
Aldmer claim the spot at the top of the food chain here. They get the best
spiritual existence and all the lesser ones are fucked over. The Thalmor take
this to the extreme. They’ve constructed and advanced their society and
technology over the eras to climb ever closer to their memories of the gods, but
they don’t believe it will be complete unless they can get the rest of the world
to emulate the spiritual hierarchy as well. *Aad semblio Anuiel.*

So what about the current state of the world exactly does not mirror the image
of the spirit realm? Well how about the fact that it’s ruled by a Mannish Empire
with a human sitting on the Divine Throne at the head of its pantheon? That’s
something of a large discrepancy that needs to be rectified in the Aurbilogical
record books. The Thalmor want to “unmake” the world. Destroying the Towers does
not unmake the world. It reverts it to its primordial Dawn state, the lowest
point in Aldmeri spiritual existence and crowning achievement of Padomaics
Aurbis-wide.

To restore existence in the image of Anuiel, existence must be liberated from
the limits imposed by Lorkhan and the will of Sithis. It needs to be ascended
from. To the Thalmor, humanity is the weight dragging existence down into the
doom of mortality. They don’t want to destroy the Towers, they want to destroy
or enslave everything different from them. They want complete control, not the
Padomaic chaos of the Dagonites. And once they have control, *that’s* when they
get to unbind the Dragon and rejoin Anuiel. I’m not going to pretend like I know
even close to what their exact *method* for accomplishing this is, but if
anything they’d want to *use* the remaining Towers and the power they exercise
to their own ends to help further this cause.

Basically I think that while the Towers are a key component when it comes to the
fate of the world, simply destroying or deactivating them is not the only way to
go about freeing oneself from its present constraints of mortality. They are
nexuses of power, and the Thalmor have proven to be more about repurposing power
to suit their own needs than squandering it.

[0]: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1ptr0o/i_am_michael_kirkbride_ask_me_anything/cd5ya77
