---
title: Logic, Reason, and Pragmatism
subtitle: A Few Thoughts on the Dwemeri Pantheon
reddit: 1x6pt4
author: FranklyEarnest
date: 2014-02-06T15:53:21Z
about: |
Hi everyone,

Apologies for the brief hiatus…RL research called this week, and I needed to
turn my attention to getting a few papers published. A few breakthroughs were
made, so I’ve decided to reward myself by submitting the following post here
on /r/teslore. Enjoy!
---

It is commonly held belief that the Dwemer were analogous to terrestrial
aetheists or agonostics, with no system of religious beliefs or code of
behavior; this analogy is further strengthened by the variety of heinous acts
they committed, like the enslavement of the Falmer. This is not to say that
atheists and agnostics are immoral in any way, but that this is the general vibe
most get from the Dwemer in-game (thanks for the feedback, /u/MareloRyan).

This is boring and therefore wrong; the Dwemer as a whole had a complex,
interconnected belief system. They acknowledged higher beings, but did not
believe them to be of any particular significance; rather, they preferred to
treat them as objects of study. In fact, they preferred to revere the abstract
constructs that were independent of the nature of the Aurbis. Vivec alludes to
their [gods of Reason and Logic][0], ideals we know the Dwemer valued above all
else. They were technologically advanced because they placed a strong emphasis
on the tenets of Logic. Mathematics[^1] is Logic via postulates, Science is
Mathematics tempered by Reason, and Engineering is the union of Science and
Pragmatism. All three of these nested, gradient disciplines are required to
achieve advanced levels of technological progress, and all three rely on Logic
as their fundamental currency.

## This is my first (reasonable) conjecture

The Dwemeri socioreligious framework was constructed as a balance of theory,
experiment, and practice, making it a higher order echo of its components. Their
religious theory (theology) was Mathematics, their religious experiment
(personal/spiritual worship) was Science, and their religious practice
(sociological aspect of religion) was Engineering[^2].

Overall, it is an intricate, strongly intercorrelated network of beliefs that
translates abstract logical principles into physical reality[^3]. The underlying
foundation to all of these fields is Logic, with the added tenets of Reason
(e.g. scientific induction) and Pragmatism added as required as one descends
into the subgradient fields. This Knowledge was their form of worship: an
elegant framework for deconstructing the Aurbis, a realm of Metaphysics
incarnate. As a whole, this logical endeavor is impossible to summarize as it is
an entire race’s body of factual Knowledge.

However, we can usually distill a religion down to its basic tenets. It is
highly likely that the basic methods of logical Proof were the ideals that the
Dwemer (as a whole) revered. Their entire religious structure collapses without
the basic transactions of Logical progress. If this does not seem reasonable,
then consider that they did not start out as the most technologically advanced
people in Tamriel; their initial set of beliefs propelled them to the pinnacle
of scientific undertaking within a relatively short period of time. Their
emphasis on Logic (the self-propagating, self-correcting driving force of
Mathematics, Science, and Engineering) ensured their meteoric rise to the
technological forefront of Mundus.

The basic methods of Proof as given by (first-order) Logic are:

- Direct
- Constructive
- Nonconstructive
- Contradiction
- Induction
- Contraposition
- Exhaustion

…and of course, there are statements whose truth values are undecidable (e.g.
“This statement is false,”)[^4].

The Dwemer must have also been aware of the basic logical fallacies; whether
these concepts took as large a role as the methods of proof is unclear.
Regardless, it is still reasonable to expect them to have been recognized as
socioreligious *faux-pas*. There are many types of formal fallacies, but all
fall under the guise of *non sequiturs*. Unfortunately, there is no simple,
universal categorization of logical fallacies. A few of the typical categories
are:

- Conditional
- Faulty Generalization
- Syllogistic
- Quantification
- Propositional

These categories can intermingle and are not one-to-one mappings. The informal
fallacies are even harder to categorize in overarching terms, as they usually
introduce differing types of nonlogical correlations into logical arguments.

## Caution! Wild conjecture ahead

Notice anything interesting about the above framework? We have 7 basic methods
of proof, and the singular notion of undecidability. From the big Elk himself,
there is also the notion of the [15 + 1 Sacred Tones][1]. What’s the
correlation? Tonal Architecture comes from the concept of a musical Aurbis, so
we’d expect there to be a link between the sacred tenets of Dwemeri faith and
the Tones, the latter of which have been connected to the (D)Aedra[^5].

The Plane(t)s as mentioned in [Vivec’s encounter with the Dwemer][2] are NIRN,
LHKAN, RKHET, THENDR, KYNRT, AKHAT, MHARA, and JHUNAL. In other words, we have
Nirn, Lorkhan, and the Aedra minus Stendarr and Dibella[^6]. Assuming the
preceding numerology is of substance[^7], then I propose the following
conjectured Dwemeri associations between the plane(t)s and the 7 + 1 methods of
proof, with brief explanations:

- Direct: JHUNAL – Julianos, near universal God of Learning (most likely the
  “Patron”)
- Constructive: NIRN – Nirn by Convention^(pun intended) and as the echo of Nir
- Nonconstructive: AKHAT – Akatosh is the subgradient echo of I AM
- Contradiction: KYNRT – Kynareth
- Induction: MHARA – Mara, as a universal Goddess of fertility, one begets its
  consequent
- Contraposition: RHKET – Arkay, as cyclic God of life => death, antithesis of
  undeath => unlife
- Exhaustion: THENDR – Zenithar
- Undecidable: LHKAN – Lorkhan is the subgradient echo of I AM NOT

Of course, none of these associations are exactly rigorous; please feel free to
tear them apart as necessary (especially JHUNAL, KYNRT, and THENDR). To clarify:
these are not to say the Dwemer worshipped these Aedra. At best, they served as
the prototypical examples or case studies for each of these methodologies of
proof. In a manner, they embody the basic tenets of Logic as primordial forces,
in perhaps the same way the ancient Nords associated the Aedra with Totem
animals.

“But FranklyEarnest, what about the other 8 tones from the 15+1 split?”

## Are you ready for some extra wild conjecture?

We can draw them from the known Daedra that fit these proof methods[^8], with
potentially Sheogorath falling under the separate category of Fallacy instead of
Undecidability. As above, my conjectured associations are informed by the
Princes’ Spheres:

- Direct: RHEMRA ~ Hermaeus Mora as Prince of Knowledge
- Constructive: PRYT ~ Peryite as Prince of Order
- Nonconstructive: NKTUR ~ Nocturnal as (supposedly first) Prince of Mystery
- Contradiction: MFAL ~ Mephala as Prince of Paradox
- Induction: AZRAH ~ Azura as Prince of Prophecy
- Contraposition: MLAKHAT ~ Malacath as the Pariah Prince
- Exhaustion: BKETH ~ Boethiah as Prince of Plots
- Undecidable *or* Fallacy: SHOGRAT ~ Sheogorath as Prince of Madness

As before, feel free to rip apart these associations as much as possible.

## A few remarks

We could postulate a splitting along the lines of the 8 Aedra + 7 Dunmeri
Daedra + Lorkhan, but this does not necessarily fit in with the Dwemeri
conception of the plane(t)s as ‘totem’ bodies. A few of the Daedric associations
are defined by duality with their respective Aedric counterparts, but I tried to
defer to their inherent natures as much as possible.

In addition, the above notions would probably change the musical scale given by
/u/myrrlyn’s Musical Aurbis as perceived by the Dwemer; their emphasis on the
notions of proof would affect their tonal framework (or vice-versa).

As a closing statement, I would like to point that both LKHAN and SHOGRAT
naturally fit the role of + 1 in the 15 + 1 breakdown; LHKAN for being the “I AM
NOT” Padhomaic Doom Drum Instigating Trickster, SHOGRAT for being the antithesis
of Logic and proof itself. I’m perfectly content with either possibility being
true (or a quantum “both”), but I’d like to hear your opinions on the matter.

> Please dissect, discuss, and deliberate!
{:tag="aside" .afterword}

[0]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Battle_of_Red_Mountain
[1]: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1vfzp5/c0da_preview/ces89jm
[2]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:The_36_Lessons_of_Vivec#Sermon_Three
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gödel%27s_incompleteness_theorems
[4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_paradoxes#Logic
[5]: ./1oybze
[6]: ./1p1fip
[7]: ./1wqdwm
[8]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZ1m39K4Tgw#t=0m14s

[^1]: I’m using Mathematics here as a placeholder for what we’d call metaphysics, philosophy, and mathematics in our universe.

[^2]: Notice the 3-fold partioning echoed thrice in this framework.

[^3]: In a sense, this is their metaphysical Tower; the Anumidium was this Tower made flesh (well, before activation, at least), powered by the Heart of Lorkhan. An immensely powerful golem (Engineering) that can deny reality (Science) by using the Doom Drum’s beat (Mathematics) is the perfect embodiment of their religious structure, and it was the pinnacle of their automata technology.

[^4]: Look up [Gödel’s Incompleteness theorem(s)][3] and [logical paradoxes][4] for more details.

[^5]: See /u/myrrlyn’s [Aurbis: The Musical][5] and [Aurbis 2: Electric
Boogaloo][6] posts, along with my conjectures on [Spacetime and Musical
Cosmology][7].

[^6]: It is unclear why Stendarr (STENDR?) and Dibella (DBEL?) are not included
as ‘known worlds’; perhaps these worlds were unknown at the time, or they were
not of significance as accessible plane(t)s to the Dwemer. These are deities
with similar counterparts within the standard pantheon, STENDR/THENDR and
DBEL/MHARA. It’s also interesting to point out that LHKAN seems to represent
Masser and Secunda, whilst NIRN is finite, unlike the others on the list.

[^7]: [Yeah, I know, I know…][8]

[^8]: To be honest, my first instinct was to associate the Daedric Princes with
the different fallacies available; however, as mentioned above, there was no
distinct categorization of (in)formal fallacies. As all are a form of *non*
*sequiturs*, the only consistent definition would relate all forms of fallacious
logic to Sheogorath.
