---
title: A Justiciary Report on Elsweyr
reddit: 1xsj2z
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2014-02-13T10:01:41Z
---

The following is my observations and discoveries made whilst on duty in Elsweyr,
covering the areas of Senchal, Torval, Dune, Corinthe and various regions of
rural Elsweyr from 4E 8-10. Officially finished and dated 4E 11.

----

**Culture**: The Khajiit are far more complex than what I had been told. Not
only do they vary widely in shape and supposedly species, there are very
different outlooks to Khajiiti life. The Northerners are far less civilised due
to a higher focus on nomadism, martial prowess and navigation through signs that
are allegedly evident to Khajiit, but I think they were just trying to look
impressive. Even if I argued that it was a merely a desert like any other they
would simply state that I was “without bearing”; the heat had clearly gone to
their heads. The Southerners, however, appear far more civilised, academic
(slightly) and mercantile than their northern brothers. There are those who have
only the slightest differences between being a “Neh Qwiniit” and “Pa La Tiit”
yet others are *extremely* different to the point of inciting violence simply
out of contempt for the opposing culture; though this only occurred once and the
northerner appeared to be a very old cat and likely stubborn. Very few elderly
Khajiit are as stubborn and bitter as, say, Nordic or Dunmeri elders as there
appears to be an underlying “carefree” attitude to most, similar to the
neighbouring Bosmer – yet not quite as much. Not only are the Northerners and
Southerners different, but each major city has their own subtle differences in
those split cultures. Senchal presented the far more mercantile aspects of the
“Pa La Tiit” Khajiit, yet those in Torval displayed the stark differences in
Southerners when working hard or relaxing as they were either *very* intensive
workers or *very* pampered in their leisure.

**Language**: Whilst using their own odd language “Ta’agra” between most fellow
Khajiit, many would still be able to talk in Tamrielic though very few could
speak Altmeri. I often wonder how Khajiit even know what they’re saying to one
another as there are multiple translations to single sentences. It’s as though
they are speaking in equations, with each word a number but the result being
something entirely different. I could only describe it as mathematics without
logic. I can personally understand Altmeri (obviously), Tamrielic, Ayleidoon and
some Dwemeri (like that does me any good) and yet learning this is far more
challenging. Only someone who lived as a Khajiit must be able to understand it,
because it doesn’t make sense elsewhere.

**Geometry**: The Khajiit are, at least in regards to what I know, unique in
their geometrical appreciations. The dominant and most loved shape is the
circle/sphere, or at least that which is spherical; unlike the man-favoured
“golden ratio” and our own more minute and beautiful forms. Many would suggest
this is due to the Khajiiti obsession over the moons, however it should not be
ruled out that the spherical Aedric bodies do not also have some influence
involved. Even in some forms of martial arts, attacks involve moving in
spherical/curved motions; though other attacks which are more simple, swift and
primal are taught as “necessary for survival yet brutally crude”. In much of
Torval’s architecture, the Khajiit have done what they can to make as many
buildings be curved to the point of questioning whether it truly is
architecture. This is excluding the areas in which Valenwood lumber is present
as the Mane of the time desired it to be installed as soon as possible after
the 5 Year War; much of this wood is around the lower regions of the Mane’s
temple, in which it provides a large vertical and horizontal garden that builds
up like steps which, from afar, look as though it could be spherical. Other
pieces are found scattered throughout the town that have either been “defiled”
via a variety of cuts and scratches to the wood which designate a certain clans
presence in the area or have been carved into “humerous” parodical depictions of
Bosmer and, recently, of past Septim Emperors.

Senchal presents the sphere obsession (which I like to call a “sphetish”) with
more soft and wide shapes on the lower levels of the town and ramps that
slightly spiral. At the higher levels, there are obviously very regular boxed
and straight buildings to reach said heights reliably, but the surrounding fauna
is shaped – either by nature or botanist – to have spherical aspects; even the
artistic carvings are mostly curved patterns.

Throughout rural Elsweyr, the homes and buildings of farmers and junglecats
alike have roofs which – whilst typically triangular to separate and catch rain
– are curved with features similar to spikes at each end of the house to
maintain a spherical outline and shadow (when possible). Several Sugar Canes are
even planted in semi-circular patterns in which farmers will work them whilst
moving in a pendulum-like fashion from the longest and furthest row until
reaching the last inner circle of canes (which is said to instil great relief
once finished as the workload shortens each time).

Further north amongst the nomads they have very light mobile buidings which are
transported with a tribe (clan? litter?); though come to much sharper points at
each end. The most popular form is that which the roof comes to a single sharp
point at the entrance and the other flat portions are pushed into the sand and
earth. Some Khajiit had told me that it was useful for hunting, but nothing sane
could live that far out. What it was useful for, however, was breaking the hot
winds and sand from flying into the group as they travelled through the deserts
by having the point face forward and a few Khajiit hold on behind and walk on,
completely unbothered by the storm. Whilst the more dexterous forms held the
roof (shield?) the other quadrupedal forms carried the rugs and cloths that
would be used over the sand in their mobile hut.

The Northern cats have much sharper circular geometry present in their
architecture that you would think they built their houses out of weapons (which,
in most cases, have curved and circular blades). Many towers that cannot be held
by the roundness of smaller buildings instead have many curved extensions on the
side of the tower which mimic the style of the roof. Cloth materials are often
found extended outside of buildings in a loose manner for a curved design,
particularly in markets that are completely covered from the sun. Whilst the
Empire has a very weak presence in Elsweyr, smugglers are believed to use these
many sheets to store goods for other smugglers to take later and, due to the
complexity of the layout, made it very hard for Imperial guards to catch and
apprehend those who used this system; along with finding the illicit goods
before smugglers.

**Fashion**: Despite the aforementioned obsessions with circles and spheres,
they seem to understand where practicality comes into play as, unlike their
architecture, Khajiit are far more forgiving when it comes to dress. The most
popular form of attire is the “Budiit”. It’s a peculiar style of robe or shirt
which is tied up on the right side of the body (I am yet to understand why.
Perhaps it’s easier for their quadrupedal brothers to wear them if another can
dress them whilst they stand?). Almost all manner of dress is vibrant and
colourful, though this is less common for rural Khajiit. Covering the torso is
crucial as exposing it, even just the fur, is considered very offensive and
shameful. The Khajiit also fashion their hair in many ways, sometimes even in
conjunction with the very popular metal (often golden) rings. For the Khajiit
who do not remove the extended hair on their heads, Khajiit often have braided
locks or the “dry lock” (sometimes called “Dread” locks) fashion of hair style,
which is also found amongst Redguards. Along with this, the more aesthetically
concerned pierce their ears to hold rings and jewels; the Ohmes and Ohmes-Raht
form (those that look like Men and Mer) sometimes do this with their noses and
lips, though it is less common. Most Northerners who are more martially-focused
do not wear jewellery as they fear they can be ripped out in combat or by
thieves.

**Law**: Whilst Khajiit are often seen as low-end criminals, there are many laws
and lawful figures in Elsweyr. The Mane has much popularity, yet I am informed
that they love the Empire too. And yet the same thing is said for clan leaders,
“Clan Mothers”, city governors, guild councils and more. I believe that this
must be a lie and that the law has such little effect on Khajiiti life that they
don’t need to worry about the law in general as “common sense”, as unlikely as
it sounds for them, dictates what would and wouldn’t be permitted. Depending on
the area, some are even allowed to have an explanation as to why their actions
were illegal and let go for their first offence. Whilst it sounds bizarre, it
appears to work as there are very few counts of recidivism with those who have
had their crime explained. This was briefly introduced with Imperial Law,
however many Imperial magistrates believed it to be unjust and had scrapped it 2
years after it was introduced to them.

The Mane, apparently, is not much of a “powerful” figure in the usual sense. He
(it is currently male) does not even set laws. His word is powerful and has
influence across all of Elsweyr and allegedly reincarnates but he acts more like
a priest than a king. At least, this is from what I have heard; I was unable to
see the Mane as the line to this temple was very long and once I reached the
guards at the entrance I had been thrown out and threatened with death, which I
am told is normal for those who are not Khajiit; apparently more so after the
Oblivion Crisis. Speaking of which, the northern part had fared much better than
the south, though those areas of the north that were struck hard still appear
damaged; whereas the south had been quick to rebuild, Senchal organisations
funding much of it from trade missions involving other nations and much of
Elsweyr has been repaired as opposed to some nations such as Morrowind and
Skyrim.

**Conclusion**: Now is not the time to attempt assimilation. Once Valenwood can
be taken it will be much easier and less costly to attempt a coup. The Khajiit
are far less passive than the neighbouring Bosmer and will not be as easily
swayed. Once we solidify our place in all of Summerset and then move to
Valenwood we should consider Elsweyr. If we try to invade like the Empire we
will only have as much success as they did, which appears to be very little. We
should wait a good dozen or so decades until the Mane dies and nationalistic
emotions of the north and south can be utilised in its absence. Also, it is
worth looking into how the moons affect the Khajiit, it is possible that if we
remove them from the birth equation we can create a nation of pure Aldmer right
beside Cyrodiil.
