---
title: State of the Empire 6E 610
reddit: 1xu71i
author: XAYAH
date: 2014-02-13T21:39:38Z
---

> This is a report by the Imperial Scholar Telmyrus Javer in the year 6E 610 to
> the Empress at the time, Telvanni Teori III, et cetera on the state of the
> Empire.
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

The sun shines dutifully on the Seventh Empire of Tamriel in its Third Glorious
Dynasty within the Sixth Era. The scholar Telmyrus Javer hails Her Imperious
Majesty, Empress Telvanni Teori III, Prime Lady of the Saarthal Province,
Highest Councillor of the Telvanni Trade Conglomerate, General-in-Chief of the
Submarine Legion, Overseer-Diplomat of the Petty Kingdoms of Anequina and
Pelletine, High Priest of the Newest Tribunal, Heir to the Solstheim Feudal
Metropolis, et cetera to present to Her Imperious Majesty his report on the
state of the Empire’s Vast Expanse in the current Six-Hundred-and-Tenth year.

## Proper Provinces

The Cirod Province is still under the Empire’s full control, and the Imperial
City grows in every aspect with each year. Peaceful times abound here, as is
usual.

The Saarthal Province is continuing to undergo land recovery and construction of
dykes after the Tectonic Shift which caused most of the previous province of
Skyrim to sink under the ocean. The city of Saarthal itself remains a powerhouse
in research and magitechnology.

The Resdayn Province remains a strong territory of the Empire. Geothermal plants
at Red Mountain and other volcanic spots provide a large percentage of the power
used throughout the Empire. In addition, many genetomagickal sites are being
built here after those in Skyrim were destroyed.

The Argony Province has experienced unrest in the recent year. The population
has uprisen against corporate institutions commonly believed to be exploiting
natives, which has been vehemently denied by the respective corporations. Thus
the province is not currently useful to the Empire, as shipments to and fro’ are
being hijacked by natives.

The Niben Province continues to grow in importance as a cultural centre. Again,
being a central province leaves it without much issue of conflict.

The Valenwood Province is prospering from the sale of their treasured and
plentiful lumber to other, less forested, regions. The Green Pact is still
technically in effect, so purchase of this wood is somewhat complicated.

The Skyrim Province still exists in small bits of island where the tallest
mountains in the region once stood. This isn’t conducive to a very productive
economy or productivity in general, so it does not provide much of worth to the
Empire. Some genetically-altered populations of men and mer live under the
water, leading the area to be popularly called “Searim”.

The Colovy Province is relatively uncivilized in comparison to other places such
as the Niben, Saarthal and Cirod Provinces. However, its citizens make for good
soldiers when using traditional weaponry.

## Non-Empire States

The Petty Kingdoms of Anequina and Pelletine remain non-provincial as your
Prediction of desertification is still in effect. The area has been sealed off
for scientific purposes.

Alinor remains foolishly rebellious against our rule. Battles occur with great
frequency in the seas between the isles and the Colovian coast. They dare not
fire in the waters around Valenwood and the other southern coasts, for their
trade routes from Akavir traverse them.

The Grand Union of Daggerfall remains a close ally despite unfortunately denying
provinciality. They commonly export mercenary forces, seafaring vessels and
precious metals. Locals are predicting that an issue in the line of succession
will arise soon.

> I welcome and encourage all questions, concerns and constructive criticism.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
