---
series: A Clockwork Nirn
part: 1
title: A Nord Survivor
reddit: 1xyr66
author: jmaynard57
date: 2014-02-15T06:20:41Z
---

Date: Unknown, post-Landfall

The Dunmer have left. What that means I cannot say, only that the Dwarves will
be the death of us all. Them and their damned construct. I do not know what
happens past out immediate vision, or even our immediate when. Since the Bronze
monstrosity returned from Talos knows where, Alduin and Akatosh seem to be at
war. Time attempts to mend, and simultaneously end. It seems impossible to write
coherently with Time being nonexistent. Rumors reach us, through the remaining
Dov, that some beings have made it to Masser, pursued by the Numidium, which is
impossible as it lays siege to us regularly. That and stranger rumors of the
return of the Tribunal of Morrowind, and strange talking thinking metal and math
constructs. These are surely just stress induced delusions of the Shards of Aka,
as we have come to call the dragons, from the void-traversals.The beasts of the
land have fled, so we have resorted to more unsavory survival tactics, Arkay
forgive me. I will attempt to leave what I have seen for any who may return to
Tamriel, as I will surely not survive.

I am currently laying low in the ruins of Saarthal with a group of fellow mages,
and a Moth Priest named Skorm. He seems to posses an Elder Scroll, we have no
idea how. The scroll it seems has lost its power. We have all attempted to look
into it, to try and gain some understanding of how we may save Skyrim, but to no
avail. We see a blank parchment. If the Elder Scrolls are broken, what hope
could there be?

The reach seems to be bathed in fire and Aether. The Revenants of the dead
flicker in and out of existence, often taking living with them. The natives have
resorted to the Hagravens for some form of protection, but even their ancient
and fowl magic seems to have no power anymore.

Whiterun has caught the worst wrath of Numidium. It has been destroyed countless
times, only to be instantly intact and destroyed again, as Numidium seems to
have some control of the destroyed timelines. I can’t speak of any known
survivors.

Eastmarch, however, cannot even attempt to be described though I will try. All
of the eastern hold seems to have collapsed into Nirn, and underneath revealed a
horror that even the Bronze bastard Numidium will not brave. The ground has
given way to a layer of semi-transparent symbols that seem to be mathematical in
nature. Underneath it is a scene of what I can only describe as Dwemer
mechanisms, complete with mathematical World-refusals. Some who have looked upon
the symbols have disappeared from all timelines. Others gain a great power which
I can’t explain.

Another hope has been explored, thanks to our Dovah allies, which seems strange
to say. Many dragons were felled attempting to fight the Numidium, including a
leader figure (from what we can glean from more talkative dragons) named
Paarthurnax. After his defeat, the other Dov scattered. Some have sought an
alliance with us (or did we seek them out? Or both?). However, from the leader
of the Dragons who have joined us, who calls himself Odahviing, we learned that
dragons are linked to time. If we reunite them into a single entity, could we
create a new time god? That is far off though. In the meantime, many of us have
taken up the use of the lost art of the Thu’um. Some of us have the ability,
most do not. There is a Shout, taught to is by Dragons, which slows time.
Perhaps we can use this as a basis to attempt to repair time with the power of
the Thu’um. We have taken to calling these new Tongues Dragoons, as they are
truly dragon-knights.

Many days/minutes/seconds ago/in the future we saw a strange light in the sky.
With hope we looked up. What we saw was horror. We saw the most powerful gods,
Shor and Talos, the gods of men, fighting within each other. I can’t describe it
otherwise. Talos was consumed by Shor, who likewise ate a sickly looking dragon,
replacing his heart with it. (Some have said it was Alduin , but the world eater
is surely mightier than this bronze abomination?) Then, they blipped out of
existence. One last hope has faded. Talos, and Shor cannot save us, and possibly
Alduin cannot even grant us the release of a World-Eating.

The doors just opened and a tree was carried in by a host of Lizards. By
Aka-Tusk, it is a Hist! Maybe there is a hope after all…

Jrir Time-Wounded

Former Chronomage, College of Winterhold
