---
title: On the Value of a Life
reddit: 1yaqpv
author: RideTheLine
date: 2014-02-19T01:25:40Z
---

*“Lemme tell ya, once you hear those bars close, that sound will haunt you*
*forever.”*

He had already been through plenty of skirmishes with the law, seen his friends
be taken away, or cut down, if they were lucky. This time, it was his turn. He
had robbed one too many travelers, and found an off-duty legionnaire. He told
himself that he had had a good run, the gang will remember him for a long time,
right? Right?

Or could he die in here, forgotten and alone?

The guard undid his chains, and pressed a boot to his spine, sending him
toppling into the cell. He landed face-first with a mouthful of hay and pebbles.

“I hope you rot, criminal scum.”

*Slam*

He merely lied there on his face for an hour without an urge to move. Defeat
began to sink in. For the first time in decades, he began to weep. “Come on ya
big baby, you call yourself a bandit?” he thought to himself. “You’ve shanked
children for Oblivion’s sake, you’re cold, heartless, mean, and…dead. Hopelessly
dead and alone.”

He sat up, brushed himself off, and observed his surroundings. He had a fetid
bedroll, coated in stains he would rather not identify, a wastebasket that had
definitely been used for, well, waste, and a small stool. And that was it. He
had spoken to some friends back in the gang who had been in prison. They had
regaled him with tales and horror stories of how dreary it cold be and how
brutal the guards were, but they failed to capture the grey. The endless grey
that coated the walls, the floor, the ceiling, the atmosphere, everything. Even
the vagabond in the cell across from him was grey…

“Psst! You, Breton! Hey, I know you hear me!”

“…”

“What, ya gonna sit there and cry the rest of your life? Come on, talk to me.
Prison isn’t *that* bad. As long as you don’t mind depression, abuse, and
starvation.” The Dunmer began to cackle.

“Leave me alone…”

“Ooh, a loner, huh? We had a guy like that once, he didn’t last long. Bashed his
brains against that wall right there while he screamed for his mommy. Look, you
can still see the stain, it’s right by your face!”

The weeping bandit dashed away from his previous position, terror in his eyes.

The Dunmer again cackled. “Oh, you’re rich, I like you. Tell me, you got a name?”

“Theodyrick. Now, if you would kindly leave me alone.”

“Can’t. Name’s Faren. I used to kill people for a living. Now I do it for fun!
And just wha—”

“By Azura, would you leave me alone already? I really don’t care about how empty
your life might be that you have to berate me, and I refuse to be subjected to
your badgering! I was a feared bandit, alright? I robbed people, killed people,
lit them on fire for no reason other than my own amusement, do you think you
mean anything to me? The way I see it, we’re both already dead, and corpses
don’t talk, so shut up.”

“Being dead isn’t that bad. It’s just the first step to being alive again.”

This piqued Theodyrick’s attention. “Explain yourself.”

Faren grinned from ear to ear. “Wow, aren’t you a bit early to be having the
“death talk”? Most people that I speak with are already on their way to the
chopping block, and need a bit of comfort. See, death isn’t so bad. It really
isn’t the end you think it is, and it shouldn’t be feared. You have killed
people, right? Did you fear for their deaths?”

Theodyrick scoffed. “Of course not. They died so I could live.”

“So, their deaths meant nothing, but what makes yours any different? Their lives
were worthless to you, and I doubt you’re anything beyond a simple mortal
yourself. Your life is just as meaningless as theirs, you just haven’t accepted
that yet. Look at yourself, you are just human. You are flesh, you’re finite,
temporary, bound to die. Your body won’t last, so what’s the point?”

“I am defined by my actions. Though My flesh will rot, my name will be passed
down by those who knew me. I shall be recorded in history as a  fierce
highwayman, a terror on the weak and needy, a symbol of strength and wisdom.” He
regained his composure, and began to gain a valiant glow about him.

“Oh, get off your high horse. Everyone that knew you will die, and so will your
name. See, in our big world here, death doesn’t mean much. We all die, yet we
all continue to live on, in a way.” Faren’s disposition changed, he became quite
serious. “Tell me, Theo, are you religious?”

Theodyrick glared at him. “No, and I never have been. Some of my fellow bandits
had an admiration for Hircine, but I never got much into it.”

“Oh well, no real difference. Regardless of who you worship, the afterlife is
inevitable. Your Self is aligned closely to some deity, somewhere, and that is
what will decide your fate. Your soul will live on eternally, be it in the halls
of Sovngarde, the libraries of Apocrypha, or in the love of Dibella. Death is
but a change, and this universe was largely formed by Change. You will exist
eternally in unlife, just not here. Or perhaps you made a deal with a
necromancer, or have some serious unfinished business, you could always roam
these lands as a ghost. Hardly sounds like an end to me.”

Theodyrick scoffed. “You fail to make a distinction between my soul and my
consciousness. We have plenty of evidence of creatures being “soul-trapped”, but
they die just like anyone else, and I have seen no resurrection arise from
attempts to place the soul back in the body. When I die, my soul shall be
released, yes, but my consciousness, my identity and sense of self, will be
eternally destroyed. I will go back to how I was before I was born, nothing.
Death is the end.”

Faren giggled and cocked his head. “Boy, haven’t you heard of the Dreamsleeve?
All our consciousnesses are drawn from that vast pool of inter-dimensional
mind-sludge.”

“Uh, excuse me? Dreamsleeve?”

“A collection of particles, in a space apart from our reach. The Dreamsleeve is
less of a collection of minds, and more of a pool of mind factors. Your
consciousness is just an amount of those factors collected together in your
head. When you die, the particles will be returned for someone else to use. But,
those factors that make “you” may never be recollected in the same person again.
You will be split up and placed back into the pool, where the next born child
will take a scoop of particles at random, maybe it will have some of yours, and
maybe it will not. However, your “code”, the exact combination of particles that
makes Theodyrick can still be assembled altogether, however unlikely that may
be. If time never ends, though, your particles will eventually reunite in the
birth of a new “you”, in a way. That hardly sounds like an end.”

Theodyrick sat down, growing weary of his bizarre conversation. “Even if someone
is born with the exact same personality and intellectual capabilities as me, he
will not be me, as my body will perish.”

Faren let out less of a giggle, and more of a snort. “Oh, come on, that’s an
easy one. Our bodies are recycled all the time. Cannibals eat, priests of Arkay
consecrate, fungi decompose, necromancers necromance, and the universe is
constant. Your flesh will eventually melt away, but something else will absorb
it and use it again, allowing your body to live on in nature. Also, still
assuming that time is infinite, your body particles and mind particles will be
reunited someday as you. Still doesn’t sound like an end.”

Theodyrick could not tell if he was comforted or disturbed. “My life is not
meaningless, and it shall eternally end someday. Your attempts to console a new
prisoner have failed. Tell me, if we all just get to “live” forever, why do
poeple ever fear death? Why not just jump off of a cliff to be closer to the
Gods in the afterlife?”

“Life is a lesson. We have so much to learn, even here in prison. That is the
gift of mortal life, since we someday pass on, we can learn, we can advance and
change. Pain is sometimes necessary as it teaches you what not to do, and cuts
you into a better shape. This life is a gift, cherish what you have and fear not
the end. Your many lessons here will serve you will in death, so drink up
everything you can from every passing moment.”

A guard stomped down the hallway, and approached Faren’s cell. “Faren Dreth, it
is time.” He unlocked the door, placed the Mer in shackles, and began leading
him away.

“See, Breton? We all die. But do I look afraid?” Faren winked seductively at the
guard, who remained stoic. “Live for what you have left, but always remember,
you’re going to die in here!”
