---
title: Whispers of Heaven’s Mandate to Ears Young and Shells Soft
reddit: 1ydd1e
author: turokman2000
date: 2014-02-19T20:00:30Z
---

Let the gentle summer afternoon’s wind carry the wisdom of the Ancestors to the
ears of the innocent. Young man of Dragon’s Land and the life reborn, listen
deep.

You have heard the whisper of ancestors. The next lesson concerns their mandate,
and the fate of the old ones.

As the sun sets on the West, so fate will call our people to that land when the
sun shall set on the world. We reside apart, removed from the children of the
wind. We face the tiger, the monkey, the demon, who do not know of things beyond
the horizon. To them, time began, and shall end in this land alone.

Are they to be pitied for their foolishness? No, but rather they must be envied!
By searching within, they have found God in one lifetime while we rest search a
thousand immortalities for him without. To be the tiger, is to be the dragon.
But, hatchling, we are not tigers.

It is known but never appreciated that our land and the West were once joined
together. There were no distinctions, only land, sea, and towers. But as time
persisted, prejudices cemented. People grew fixated on ideas and schemes, land
divided land from land. Seas snaked in-between it all. And the divisions
remain.

But once, all man were one on the same land together. Men wandered with the tall
ones, their old cousins, as far as the frozen north. And man wandered East to
the place of Dragons. And man wandered everywhere in-between. And from the
South, eventually, the children of the wind came forth too to bind the Children
of Shahar to slavery and darkness as Shahar had bound the wind to the dragon.

Ah, but do not be deceived. The children of the wind are not like their father.
They do not flow as he did, they do not gently embrace the dragon as he did.
They are bound beings, stubborn, prejudice, single-minded, flailing, yet unable
to break free. It was into the lands of man and beast that these tyrants and
schemers roamed and conquered.

They never did reach beyond the heart of the West. The harsh cold that Kayana
blessed the north men against for their friendship to the tall ones whom she
loves for their loyalty, this was too much for the children of the wind at
first. And yet, a zealous few braved the ash and sulphur of the Red Tower to
learn its secrets. These penetrated ash, then rock, to learn an escape from that
which made their brothers flail.

Man, though, spread across the land unto endless divisions. The horsemen rode
the hills of the grassy sea that separated East and West of old. Then, even this
land was larger. There were more beasts, and more jungles. The monkeys speak of
strange black and white bear peoples, and horse peoples, and even the ruddy
snake peoples. But they are no more, gone with the land which could never
outlast the dawn.

The tiger in his pride claims this land as his, but it never belonged to him.
This is dragon land. This was where the old ones watched creation.

That is what the old ones are. Watchers. Their eyes see all things that can be,
and the great dragon A Ka sees us, knows us, apart from the thousand and one
other us-es, through their eyes. What we know as life and being is only a vision
in the eyes of Dovah.

Dovah – those of the dawn. As soon as the two spikes were planted, out of the
East came dovah to greet the new forms. East from their perch where they
witnessed creation, this time.

They were surprised to see man so numerous. Beings in all times would come to
Dovah for wisdom, and the Dov would look on the unique beauty of each world and
weep for joy because of it. Kayana and Dovah with their abiding mutual affection
held their pact, and Dovah would care for the beasts, and guide them. Yet never
had they seen the children of Shahar so plentiful. Yet they treated them no
different. Respect for respect, disrespect met with vengeance. Together, the
dragons and man loved Kayana, and the dragons taught man her ways and theirs.

But it could not last.

There were two brothers, Zaltan and Casaba. Hunters of the plains, horse riders.
They rode far far to the West, to the Red Mountain. There they met the children
of the rock. These had discovered dark things, not meant to be known, in the
heart of the mountain. The Way of Shahar, that he himself could not see for we
do not see the path we walk when we walk it.

The children of the rock sought slaves, to delve deeper, after greater wealth,
knowledge and power. The men wanted riches and comfort. So Zaltan and Casaba and
their thousand armies drove man from the plains to the ash.

Many were enslaved, but there were far more of man than the deep ones required.
For a time, people thrived as well as they could on the mineral rich ash. The
first art and culture of man was born, beyond the simple earth cults of the
north led by the old ones.

It is said that one calls the void to oneself as the last of ones virtues are
drained by the weight of the multitude of ones vices. The deep ones had dug too
deep, their lust for what should not be known was too strong. And the ash-men,
who had ones roamed the plains, their greed was too powerful. And so the void
noticed the petty mundane.

Hermamo, the seeker of forbidden knowledge was summoned by the sheer extent of
the deep ones’ lust. And his was greater. But the deep ones hid in the rock, and
were far too clever. So Hermamo, going to great lengths, called upon the other
dark masters to form an alliance. A scheme was hatched.

The deep ones understood, the dragons see all, and all is together with all.
They hid from the sight of the old ones, they burrowed into rock. They sought to
be apart. But even so, hiding from petty dragons does not free one from the gaze
of the great dragon, not in a world bound to him. And where they were
frustrated, Hermamo had an answer.

A pocket of time, apart from all, apart even from the great dragon. They would
be taught of how to make it, and they would use it to find the knowledge they
sought that they could not while bound to the dragon. And they would tell him
what it was.

And so it was done. Secrets of Shahar, discovered, Kayana, even A Ka. But it was
forbidden. That which is found in time is bound to time, but that which is found
without is not, and indeed has the power to unbind time. Which is why the
dragons gaze upon time in the first place, to guard forever against mortal
tinkering. So, as the deep ones stepped momentarily apart, the rage of Alduin was
kindled.

Alduin, the great dragon master, was not meant to rule. No, he comes and he eats
and grows full on time. None of it escapes him, when its time comes. Alduin then
was sleeping, the other old ones watching time until he could eat it. The
time-eater sleeps, and is jealous of his rest. When parts of the world are
stolen from him, so he cannot eat, then he must awaken and reclaim what is his.
He never shows mercy to those who wake him early. Once, a beloved king of
leapers felt that it would be merciful to save some of creation from Alduin’s
jaws. For the king’s gentle scheme, Alduin ate not the leaper, but saw that he
would persist forever as the lord of doom. Lord of hell.

Never had time itself been ripped from him before. Alduin’s rage was
unquenchable. He could not see the deep ones, they had hidden themselves too
well from the eyes of the dragons. Alduin’s fury saw only the mountain, and the
men. He rallied his lieutenants, and they attacked.

The ash-men were accustomed to smoke and fire, but that day even the stoutest
among them shook at the flames. The great mountain itself, for one day, ceased
its smoking and bellowing completely, humbled by a mass of fire which it would
never rival. Many dragons were killed by the accomplished warriors among the
ash-men from the plains, but in the end the ash kingdom was desolated.

Very few survivors were left to join the northern men, scattered in very small
villages in the kingdom of the ice mer. These through magic, extreme piety, and
cold soothed the flailing of their kind, nonetheless bound to creation as much
as ever.

Alduin’s rage never ceased, however, and he began exerting greater dominion over
the centers of worship shared between the north men and the dov. He wanted man
to be dominated, and also punished. Once he learned the treachery of the deeps
ones, he cared not, man had provoked his ire, man had defied dov, man would not
survive to the end of this world.

There were old ones among the armies of Alduin that saw the battle, fought in
it. They saw it against all the other times and worlds. They saw fall of
immortal dov against mortal man. They comprehended mortality. They saw the
struggle to survive, the valor of the fighting men, the strength and resilience
of the survivors. They saw the endless cycles of time, as a wheel that keeps
turning, saw it turn, and reveal the I. Shahar was not a troublemaker who
annoyed, he was an ambassador from the void with a message of truth. The
universe was a tower, of aetherial light flowing into dark oblivion, the brief
union of the two in the middle the shining exclamation point on existence.

These few dov saw man fight for their young. What for? They asked. The dov
preserved the cycle, they were the cycle. But what was there to preserve if it
was to all end? What was the point when none of it would last? Why did mortals
behave this way? And these, the ancestors, understood.

As light flowed into dark in a singular channel, it hatched the egg of the
world. Meaning derived from self, but which did not bind self to the torment of
immortality. No more endless visions of worlds, but one vision, one meaning,
that could last forever. As these few flew East, away from Alduin, the Red
Mountain began to erupt in its fury and glory once again.

These ancestors gave their immortality, and became an egg. Hatchling, hear and
remember the previous whispers. You are the memories of the ancestors of your
line, and their will. You are all that’s left of them. They have left time and
space, they have gone back to the void. You will hatch, and bind to your brother
as Shahar bound earth to the great dragon. Young man, you will receive your
brother, they will consume your will. Through you they will see and feel. The
hatchling cannot see nor feel, nor ever has after the ancestors conceded their
dragon nature.

Together you will fulfill the mandate of heaven, the will of the ancestors to
ensure Shahar’s plan is fulfilled.

First, you will not tolerate the presence of the old ones. They are to be hunted
and eliminated. That they were once brothers does not affect the choices they
have made under Alduin. Their presence binds the timelines and frustrates
Shahar’s plan.

Second, you will seek they born of the dragon. When our ancestors left, the
pocket of time that they embodied was left shredded. As the damage is repaired,
echoes of those pockets will reverberate. The dragons are no more, but the
essence of the dragon will weakly manifest itself from time to time. These are
more than our ancestors in memory, these are their last dying breaths, these are
the ancestors. They must be obeyed and honored until they finally pass. A dragon
does not die quickly or simply. Our ancestors chose man as the vessels of their
offspring, they shall likely choose men as the house of their spirits.

Third, you will preserve the binding. Alduin must not eat the world, he must be
stopped at the end of time. And other schemers must be stopped as well. Until
the day of the world’s last sunset.

This is the mandate of the ancestors, the mandate of Shahar, the mandate of
heaven. We shall keep it, and prepare, until the day we are called West to
fulfill it.

As for the ash lands, it is said Hermamo promised them to other dark lords,
empty and prepared for a people they could rule over. And so it shall be, if
Hermamo can keep the dov away. And, forget not the deep ones, for their schemes
are now bound to this world and shall never be unbound.

Young ones, let the whispers run deep.
