---
title: "Dunmer Law: A Primer"
reddit: 1yklj2
author: TamrielRebuilt
date: 2014-02-21T21:55:44Z
about: |
  This text was originally written by gro-dhal for Tamriel Rebuilt, a project
  that is expanding TES3’s gameworld to include Morrowind’s Mainland. Posted
  with permission.
---

by Galothis Omeyn, scholar of the Imperial University

The law of the Dunmer is not a single monolithic doctrine, rather it is as
varied and obscure as the Dunmer people themselves. An unwary outlander scholar
may find themselves hopelessly lost within Morrowind’s legal system, and it is
my hope that this primer will familiarize visitors with some of the basic
principles of law in this province.

In many ways, Morrowind itself is not one nation but five (or six, or seven
depending on how one counts), and the competing legal structures of the province
reflect the different values and ideals of its Great Houses. Thus one might
expect a court and trial system not unlike that of Wayrest or Colovia in the
lands of my kin, the Hlaalu. If you find yourself in legal difficulties in the
Velothis Marches however, I pray that your sword arm is strong as disputes among
the Redoran are often solved by honorable duels. The scandal of 3E297, when the
East Empire Company delegate to Baan Malur was reportedly murdered by a
councillor of that city, was to Redoran eyes an acceptable, lawful challenge to
a tariff dispute over marshmerrow exports. Their response to the ensuing
Imperial outrage was bemusement that the delegate, in his ignorance of legal
custom, had not made more effort to seek a compromise on the issue.

The Telvanni, as usual, are another matter altogether. There are historically no
laws in their domain, a civic freedom in which they take no small measure of
pride. Of course, the power of the local wizard lord is absolute, and his or her
word is final in all disputes. Tyranny, you might declare, but many a cruel or
overmighty Telvanni lord has been dragged from his tower and dismembered by his
angry subjects.

Order in the lands of the Dres is maintained by the accumulated legal wisdom and
precedents of over three thousand years of history. This wisdom is rarely
written down, and is instead called upon directly by the summoning of esteemed
ancestor spirits to legal proceedings. This is naturally advantageous when
mediating cases of inheritance or unlawful murder, and it is occasionally the
case that necromancers have been denounced at trial by the souls of the dead
they have attempted to bind to the mortal plane. Court meetings take place on
holy ground and are ritually cleansed at the end of every hearing.

Indoril law is perhaps the greatest philosophical achievement of the Dunmer
race. It entails an all-encompassing code that covers all functions of society
and nature. Derived in part from the recursive algorithmic legal doctrine of the
Aldmeri Dominion (which was also highly influential on the Dwemer), Indoril law
requires study from birth in order to correctly grasp its axioms, as it seeks to
provide a framework not only for mortal behaviour but also natural processes
like the growth of flowers and the master-slave relationship which is inherent
to all life. The much-publicized and misunderstood attempt by the Indoril to
place the Thrassian Plague itself on trial in the First Era, on charges of
existential disruption of the social order, has garnered some derision in the
West. These outlander commentators fail to grasp the importance of the legal
process in Indoril society, and the necessity that grotesque unpredicted
occurrences be codified and incorporated into society’s worldview. Needless to
say the relative vulgarity of Imperial law is looked on with disdain by Indoril
savants, much as an artist might resent a tradesmer’s crude branding mark pasted
across their life’s masterwork.

All Great Houses are obliged to implement the core Imperial legal code, the
*Juris Imperator Tamrielicus*, and all grudgingly do so in their own fashion.
Fines and imprisonment for crimes such as murder, theft and obstructing an
officer of the Empire are standardized and will be familiar to any Imperial
subject.

Disputes between members of different houses, or legal issues where house
jurisdiction is in question, are often referred to the Court of Waters, a
religious conclave that holds the final say in matters beyond the remit of the
House councils. The power of this court has waxed and waned over time according
to the strength of the Great Houses themselves, but in theory it carries the
authority of the god-kings of Morrowind and now also the Empire, which is trying
to consolidate the legal framework of the province into this one entity for
administrative purposes. It was at this court that the historic accord was
reached between Great House Dres and the Tribunal Temple itself, when they
affirmed their legal right to practice traditional Dunmer Daedra Worship in a
case where the deities Vivec and Boethiah were both called to the stand, and
proceedings were temporarily halted when the court building itself was
apparently briefly relocated to the moon Secunda by parties unknown. Other
unusual cases heard here include a dispute over archaeological remains between
Telvanni and Indoril plaintiffs, which caused outrage when the Telvanni
delegation summoned a mechanical Dwemer centurion as a witness for their case.

It is difficult to say how the law will develop as Morrowind becomes a more
settled member province of the Empire. The Hlaalu have led the way, becoming
highly conversant in the Western system to the extent that they are now able to
propose innovations within the Imperial *Juris*. However recent disputes about
territorial control effected by the opening of Vvardenfell promise to create new
crises and conflicts, and I believe that common understanding is now more
essential than ever.
