---
title: A Research Report on Alchemiosynthesis
subtitle: by Alberic Adthar
reddit: 1yksae
author: xenoposeidon
date: 2014-02-21T23:01:39Z
about: |
  Hey all,

  I know with all the excitement over C0DA and whatnot very little of you
  probably remember these two weeks’ theme, however as the creator of the theme
  I have been contemplating it quite a lot. Well, this post does have to do more
  with nature than the Wilds, but I’ll honestly say that’s the fault of me just
  picking the wrong word for a theme I’ve been really wanting to do. Anyway this
  here is what happens when my bio teacher makes us do a few tests and a lot of
  assignments about photosynthesis, and is my attempt to rationalize and explain
  everything from how alchemy works to why food gives you health in-game. As
  many of you that have been around here for long know, my field of study is
  normally Argonians and Hist, so this is quite entirely new for me. If the
  entirety of my theories are disproved by some fact that is already known by
  everyone that is good on alchemy and magic lore then I apologize, however if
  not I hope this can act as a good background for people’s headcanons of how
  biology works in ES lore. Also, as always, apologies in advance for any
  grammatical or spelling error, I’ve been speaking English for 6 years but I
  can still write incomprehensibly in some cases.
---

Let me preface this document with a declaration of utmost gratitude to my
Thalmori emissaries who had sponsored my research and provided the tools that
allowed for my research to develop. Without the Thalmor’s support in the way of
materials and technologies I could never have made any of the below documented
observations.

---

The topic of my research and curiosity for these last few years had been the
working of Tamriel’s plants. Originally I was afraid I had too many questions
that could never be answered, such as why it is that plants survive under
certain conditions but not others, that despite scholars agreeing that plants
are, like the beasts and races of Nirn, alive, unlike all other living creatures
plants make no need of eating, and why do plants get their alchemical
properties. However, upon completing my research into a process I had come to
name Alchemiosynthesis, I had found all my questions answered.

My research began as I decided that the only way to truly inspect the nature and
properties of plants is to look at the, extremely closely, at the very figment
of their skin. To do this would have been impossible without the aid of my
Thalmori sponsors, whom had supplied me with a wonderful contraption of magic
and glass capable of magnifying one’s sight hundreds of times upon simply
looking into a complex tube. I would ramble on about this machine’s properties
longer, however I was prohibited by the Thalmor to study the machine more
closely. In any case, when I observed leaves and roots of various plants I had
obtained from all over Tamriel, I had found the scholar Calia Adaire’s
observations correct that the skin and likely all bodily features of living
creatures are made up of great stacks of tiny mostly geometrically shaped
figments. Adaire had called these layers “Cells” in her research, and as such I
will refer to them as such in the rest of this document.

Upon studying the cells of plants my first observations were as to the features
of the cells’ interiors. Among these features were the circular Cellbrain and
Mazespheres documented in Adaire’s research, however the plants also contained
two additional features worth mentioning, one being a great orb taking up much
of the cell’s space which I take to do mot much more than act a storing area for
water, and another being a collection of tiny colorful structures. The
structures’ color had immediately seized my attention and brought me to a
conclusion that a plant’s color is caused by these structures. However, studying
the varying properties of these structures both in dead cells, living ones, and
ones observed in many different conditions had allowed me to create various
theories as to how these structures work to both keep plants alive and give them
alchemical property. For the remainder of this document I shall refer to these
structures as Alchemiobodies.

The Alchemiobodies’ name comes from the fact that in the Alchemiobodies takes
place the process that gives plants much of their alchemical properties, as well
as keeps them alive: Alchemiosynthesis, being the process in which light, water,
and air are utilized to create mana.

Through experimenting with different environmental conditions I had found that
the three necessary ingredients for both the Alchemiobodies to retain their
color and for the plant to remain alive are water, air, and light. Plant cells
utilize these three ingredients in order to create a substance that seems to be
almost like mana in liquid physical form, a pure potion of every alchemical
possibility. It is my theory that water and air are absorbed through the skin
and roots of the plant and together are mixed to create a basic substance that
can be easily utilized magically. Then, the plant’s cells, and more specifically
the Alchemiobodies within them, absorb and trap light. As light comes from
Aetherius, a plane of pure magic, light within itself is magical in its
properties, and the Alchemiobodies seem to be capable of trapping the very magic
in light and storing it in the water and air-made substance, making the
substance itself a colorful liquid of pure mana. I believe this substance, which
I have taken to call the Manacell, is the driving force of all alchemical magic
and function of the body of a living creature.

The Manacells, themselves being perhaps some kind of dust or liquid, however too
small to tell, are utilized both for alchemical effect and in order to give
energy to a living body. As different beings use the Manacells in different
ways, the Manacells change in function and effect greatly, giving different
magical essences to different beings. These essences are the very essences that
are combined and experimented with by alchemists to create potions and solutions
of every kind.

However, beyond alchemical use, the most important function of Manacells is to
maintain every living creature’s health and function. Beyond the process of
Alchemiosynthesis, I had found an additional process, however connected to
Alchemiosynthesis in function, a process in which the Manacells are likely
broken down and in the process release their magical essence, which is used by a
body to create energy for every one of the body’s functions, from walking to
speaking to urinating. I had realized that while Alchemiosynthesis may only
occur in plants due to the presence of Alchemiobodies, the process of giving
energy and health to the body by utilizing Manacells, which I will call
Restoration due to its similarity to the type of magic of the same name, likely
also occurs in all living things. With help from my Thalmor associates I was
able to test this theory on both beasts and sentient people (The Thalmor assure
me that those who were tested upon were criminals and deserved punishment of
pain) and found that Restoration certainly occurs in all living things.

However, that bodily restoration occurs in all living things raises the question
of how non-plants obtain Manacells to utilize. I believe that the reason we eat
is because our bodies require Manacells to utilize for restoration. Manacells
are absorbed from plants by any being that eats plants, and Manacells are
absorbed from those beings from any being that hunts and eats the plant-eating
being. As such, Manacells, and respectively Mana and energy are transferred from
being to being. Such is the beauty and complexity of the nature of Nirn. This
amazing process must be the Aedra’s work, no other being of this world could
design such a beautifully simple yet effective process to preserve life upon
Nirn.

This said, many things are left unexplained. My friend and associate Senos
Posenon has raised the question of whether or not great and culturally mythical
beings such as the graht oaks of Valenwood or the Hist of Black Marsh also
partake in these processes. I myself would theorize that these trees work as any
other plant, however to state so as fact is insensitive of me as it might offend
those believe these beings are beyond the normal plant in function and status.
It may also be questioned how it is that certain plants manage to survive
underground without access to much light, and whether or not magical beings such
as wraiths and daedra also partake in these processes, however I’m afraid these
questions may only be answered with further and difficult research.

It is of my hope that these finds are popularized and agreed with amongst the
scholarly community, without the respect and approval of my peers my research
and observations are worthless.
