---
series: "Landfall: Day -1"
part: 2
title: Portrait Room
reddit: 1yq7rd
author: hircine1
date: 2014-02-23T20:07:54Z
---

Of course there was no need for a key. The door would never open for anyone
else. It just felt ‘right’ to have a key for a place of such importance.

The door closed behind her, leaving him (yes him now) in complete darkness. No
lantern nor torch could light this room for it was not really…there. It was here
that Nerervar fully understood the Sermons Vivec had laid out for him. Here His
form never wavered for this space was beyond the dragon’s binding. Fortunate
even more so now that the Thalm(or) had completely broken poor Akatosh.

He was alone with his thoughts.

I AM AND I ARE ALL WE.

Who built the Citadel? Nerervar had no idea. That’s not to say he wasn’t
interested, he was. That’s also not to say he couldn’t find out, for he could
simply open his eyes and see (mentally mind you. Though he could probably do so
physically too.) but he preferred to not know. There were few mysteries left to
him. He wanted to preserve those that remained.

It was just there waiting off the West coast of Vvardenfell. So he took it. It
was a good place to begin his work. Rumors were that he was spending time in
Akavir. He saw no reason to dispel the good people of Tarmiel of that notion.

## Day 0 – Portrait Room

Refreshed, Nerervar stepped out from the space that  was not a space. He donned
his Indoril armor and Akaviri sword. Almost as an afterthought he picks up
Wabbajack and tucks it in his belt. The only remaining artifact which had not
yet left to find a new owner. He suspected Sheogorath had something special in
store for him. That thought made him nervous so he dismissed it.

Lastly he removes Azura’s Star from the room, it’s pale blue glow spilling over
him as the soul of a furious god twinkled inside.

He left the portrait room, not bothering to lock it behind him. Vehk himself
wouldn’t be able to get inside.

Seht had not moved from the night before. His body was rigid, his mind literally
elsewhere.

Overnight the fabricants had done their work. Akulakhan’s damage was repaired,
and the newly christened Scroll Matrix sat in the opened chest cavity, right
above the heart compartment. Fabricants swarmed over the colossus like a pack of
Nix hounds over a fresh kill.

In place of the missing left fore-arm a curved blade has been attached.

The system the Sharmat had created to spread corpus was somehow connected via
tubes and tones to the Scroll Matrix.

Nerervar levitated from the floor of the assembly room, landing in the chest
cavity. Gingerly, he sat Azura’s Star in the heart compartment. It didn’t quite
fit. This was expected. He wedged it in as best he could and then connected the
leads.

“I will be interested to see what happens when you activate this abomination”
Seht intoned from across the room. The echoes eerily transforming his artificial
voice into a one almost natural.

“You’ll have a close up view.” Popping open the golden scroll case, he slid the
Elder Scroll into one of the brass tubes before floating out and closing the
chest cavity.

“Just what…time” Seht chuckled, “are you waiting for?”

“I’ll know when the stars begin to fall.”

“To the observatory then?”

“Indeed.”

The gears deep in the earth were especially loud today.

## Day 0 – Observatory

Seht and Nerervar sat under the crystalline windows of the observatory. A bottle
of Cyrillic Brandy floated between them, filling their goblets. It’s exactly how
you would expect gods should behave during the apocalypse.

“What is left for us to do?” Seht asked; trying to sip his brandy. A small
trickle poured from the corner of his mouth which was not connected quite right.
Quite undignified for a god. Nerervar didn’t seem to mind.

Nerervar shrugged. “Watch the sky.”
