---
title: Vivec and the Healer
reddit: 1yqhvs
author: Jaridase_Zasmyocl
date: 2014-02-23T21:46:50Z
---

Vivec tumbled down the small steps, unable to control himself. None of his
muscles would respond to his commands, and his sensations were hazy. The
half-gold God buzzed slightly, and clenched his fists as feeling returned.

“That’s an interesting spell,” he said, getting up on one knee. “I’ve never
heard of one quite like that. Typically paralyzation spells just hold you in a
vice.”

“It’s one of my own creations,” the tall Dunmer, standing before Vivec
responded, acid in his voice. He breathed heavily, sweating profusely from every
pore. Five minutes of dodging spells seemed like hours, so great was the
intensity of the God Vivec’s Wrath.

“What was its inspiration?” Vivec asked, idly curious as he rose to his feet and
readied his hand again to cast.

“A numbing spell used to aid in taking out rotten teeth,” the healer truthfully
replied, bending his knees. Vivec threw his hand out and a brilliant ball of
light leaped from it; the healer turned left and threw himself away. The blast
echoed in the chamber, and the healer was picked up by the blast and thrown onto
his face. His back was riddled with burns and cauterized punctures.

“Interesting,” Vivec repeated, continuing his walk toward the fallen Dunmer.
“Sotha Sil has a similar spell; two, in fact. One of them makes your muscles
below your neck unable to feel or move,” Vivec said, informing his would-be
assassin. “He derived it from watching mer sleep and dream.”

The healer on the floor started healing his wounds, and spun around on the
ground, throwing his hand out toward Vivec. An emerald ray burst from his hands
and smacked the God in the middle of his chest, but had no affect.

“Did you expect it to work twice?” Vivec asked, bemused. The healer cursed and
cast another spell, this one a darker shade of green. The God swayed slightly
after it hit him, but was otherwise unaffected. “A poison as weak as that isn’t
going to kill a God,” Vivec chided, throwing another ball of light at the
healer.

The healer rolled on the ground, attempting to dodge the blast; it barely
missed, and the force of it caused him to roll farther than he intended and
faster than he thought possible. Slamming into a wall, the healer groaned loudly
as his cracked ribs finally broke. He started pulling every drop of his will and
soul into his hands.

“The other spell,” Vivec said, continuing his lecture, “Sotha Sil says he
formulated after seeing a lightning eel attack fish. It causes ones muscles to
spasm uncontrollably. It’s the strongest disabling spell I’ve ever encountered,
and I can’t really fight it too well if I get hit by it,” Vivec admitted,
standing over the healer. “The trick is to not get hit.”

The healer turned and thrust both hands at the God towering over him, and smote
the dual-toned Tribune with every bit of power he had remaining. Vivec gasped as
his eyes turned green, and fell on top of the healer. The God shuddered and
shuddered, foam forming on his trembling lips.

“Did you think there would no consequence for killing my brother?” the healer
asked, looking at the head in his lap. “He was yours but for a month, before you
slew him for a question.”

Vivec placed his hand on the healer’s stomach. “Did you think there would no
consequence for attacking a God?” Vivec asked, mocking the taunt, as the healer
died, burnt from the inside. Vehk got up and dusted himself off with the wind.
Then he took the name of the healer and the mystic, his brother, from the
records, and went back to practice his Water Face.
