---
title: "Remembering the Wilderness: Lyenwen’s Diary"
reddit: 1yqinx
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2014-02-23T21:55:06Z
---

[Part 1][0] and [Part 2][1] of Lyenwen’s writings.

My Dearest Ibthld,

I remember when our time together was still new and fresh, and you asked me many
questions about my life above the surface. You had lived your entire life in
Blackreach, only leaving sporadically, usually in a covered litter, carried by
spiders, slaves or chaurus.

I do not know what problem you Dwemer had with nature. You seemed so
uncomfortable with the idea of sleeping under the open sky, as if you had some
kind of collective agoraphobia that kept you below the ground. Your
unwillingness to go above struck me as oddly irrational in a mer who prided
himself on logic and reason.

I remember the night I decided I had to seek shelter with the Dwemer. I had been
on the run from a Nord hunting party that had seen me when I had been stalking a
sabre cat alone. My family had already been killed several weeks before. I was
seventeen years old, very young for an elf, to be alone in the wild.

I heard a Nord, in broken Altmeri, threatening me with whatever crude tortures
he could twist my language into, and in my youth and terror, I panicked and made
way for Blackreach. I knew in my heart that if I went underground I would never
again see the light of day, but I also knew that if those Nords caught me, I
would regret every remaining second of my life before they finally let me die.

I sneaked through the country side, alternatively sneaking and sprinting through
the rugged, rocky valley between Snow-Throat and Blackreach.

I thought of killing the Nords, I was an expert marksmer, but even a foolhardy
adolescent has limits to her recklessness. I would not be taken prisoner by
them, even if it meant surrendering to another enemy.

During my trek into your arms and my prison, I grieved every beautiful moment I
spent under the bright blue sky and clouds. As I crossed each stream, I bid it
farewell. I wiped tears from my eyes as I ate my last fresh-caught rabbit,
kissing its pelt as I left it as an offering to Kynareth and Y’ffre. As the
Alftand lift loomed in my vision, I would stand on a rocky ledge, and take in
the beautiful scenery, the mountains stretching far to the north, south and
east, with the long valley towards Whiterun reaching westward. I whispered my
adieu to the tips of the pines peeking through the fog.

On the final night, I bade goodbye to the stars in the Aurbis, and to Secunda
and Masser, thanking them for guiding me through my most dangerous of night
hunts and raids. I grieved for nature, more than I grieved my family. My family
gave me life, but it was the wild that not only kept me alive, but reminded me
of the importance of living.

I would rather be an immortal spirit, free to wander the Aurbis without
limitations, of course. But since I must be bound to this mortal plane, I am
glad that I learned some measure of freedom and joy within its constraints.

You… and your people, you were consumed with becoming immortal, I gathered that
much. Such that you never really appreciated, in fact, you outright denied, the
beauty of the world around you. You stayed underground, in the dark, doing your
research and experiments, forwarding your ambition.

…and where did it get you? Where are you now? You were so strange that day you
disappeared, literally vanishing into thin air before my eyes, in an eerie
blue-green glow and a cry of anguish and rage.

The last word you said, was **NO**.

[0]: ./1uyjp5
[1]: ./1vbtt1
