---
title: On the Value of Fun
reddit: 1yuss0
author: RideTheLine
date: 2014-02-25T02:39:12Z
---

> _Yer a right soddin idjut fer wantin that, ya big, hairy oaf!_

An Imperial sat at the counter with his Nord accomplice, flailing his arms in
frantic speech.

“Run this by me again, Alduin returns, and we all die? That’s just it? And
you’re completely unmoved?”

“That is correct, my Colovian friend. Life is finite, and our world is no
different. This world is going to end, eventually. But why let it bother you?
Drink, be merry! Here, I’ll order you a round!”

Svod waved to the barkeep for another pint, but Crito slammed his hand to the
table.

“Svod, this is no time for alcohol, we’re having a serious debate! Tell me, if
the world just… ends, what is the point in doing anything? None of it matters in
the end, so why bother?”

“Uh, well, why not? Life should be enjoyed, should it not? Crito, you are _far_
too serious about everything. That is why you should just relax and have a dr–”

Crito leapt to his feet at this. “No! Why can you accept that? How? You should
be screaming to the heavens, praying for salvation amongst the glorious
Divines.”

> Why would I do that? If the Divines intended to stop the end, they would have
> many cycles ago.

Crito led his Nord friend by the hand outside. “Watch your tongue, blasphemer”,
he hissed, “the Divines would not appreciate your tone”.

Svod shrugged. “I don’t really care. If I can’t have my mead, I may as well
offer myself to Sanguine.”

Crito gasped. “Remind me why I spend my time with you?”

“Can do. You are a far too serious priest of Stendarr, and I know what fun is.
You served as a chaplain in battle against the Thalmor when you really had no
place amongst soldiers, and I saved your ass.” Svod pointed to the burn scar on
Crito’s left cheek. “Those fireballs burn, eh?” He then lifted his shirt to
reveal a similarly patterned burn on his stomach.

Crito grew weary, and looked to the ground. “Fine, just answer me this: what is
the point of fun when everything we do vanishes?”

The Nord let loose a harsh bellow of laughter. “There ya go, finally opening up
those ears. Here.” Svod put his arm around the Imperial, and led him down the
street. “Tell me, where do you see fear? Nowhere. I see only merry-making and
joy.” He gestured to the tavern, children playing in the street, and men
gambling in the alley.

“Yes yes, but aren’t some of these a bit less than wholesome?” Crito asked as he
scowled at a man who had just won a few Septims off a gambling game. “This is
not in accordance with the Divines. I see the works of evil in all this
debauchery.”

“You mean in this tavern, where great commerce is invoked in the name of
Zenithar? Or in that brothel, where women weave the arts of Dibella? This ‘sin’
you behold is all in the interpretation. People want, so people take. Having a
desire is not falling prey to Vile’s whims, having a drink is not succumbing to
Sanguine’s tricks, and purchasing some, uh, fleshy services is not being foiled
by Mephala.”

Crito’s scowl grew heavier. “I do not agree. The Divines are the only ones who
truly protect us, and the Daedra are those that harm us. We belong in the arms
of faith to protect our souls. All the time at the bar could be spent aiding the
poor for Zenithar, or remembering the dead for Arkay. Why leave the end up to
chance?”

“Why throw your life away? The Divines will still look favorably upon he who
lives his life to the fullest.”

“Akatosh tells us to ‘worship the Nine, do our duty, and heed the commands of
the saints and priests’. Live in accordance with Heaven.”

“And all of them say ‘above all else, be good to one another’, which includes
yourself.”

Crito turned his back on his old friend. “I owe you my life, tis true, but I
cannot abide by your corrupt beliefs.”

Svod mimicked the motion. “And I shall not accompany such a curmudgeon.”

“Goodbye.”

“Bugger off.”

The Ascetic and the Liberal went their separate ways.
