---
series: NUL Entry
part: 3
title: "NUL Entry 03 {Apocrypha}"
reddit: 1z405s
author: AlyxDinas
date: 2014-02-27T19:33:03Z
hide_series: true
---

[Continued from here][0]

15 Last Seed, 3E 428

Grand Marshal Omayn,

As per your orders and the wishes of our lord the Bifold God of Two and One, we
have begun our second preserveration of the Incarnate’s march through the
Citadels of the Sixth House. Last year’s excursion saw the death of many of the
Sharmat’s servants, as well as the recovery of those once called “dreamers”. The
latter development greatly delayed our martial enterprises and we have thus
exercised our own jurisprudence as commander of this undertaking to focus
entirely on the further eradication of the Sixth House.

Our concerns rested on the Dwemer stronghold known as Kogoruhn, to all
indications one of the largest bastions of Dagoth Ur’s servants. For although
the death of Dagoth Ur offered a swift end to his chief lieutenants, his lesser
servants did not share the same fate. Increased reports of activity in the area
turned our gaze, particularly a growing disappearance of tribesmen among the
Urshilaku ashlanders; they might reject ALMSIVI but we will not forsake them.
That this fortress rests outside of the Ghostfence ensured it was a priority. If
the Sixth House was indeed amassing at this location, they might move south to
Maar Gan.

My detachment consisted of myself, Giras Indaram, Travlvan Athvi, Velaso Elads,
and Dransi Darai. The entry into Kogoruhn saw no immediate conflict. Well rotted
corpses paved the path which the Nerevarine walked a year ago. The count rested
at a total of six “ash ghouls” and half six “sleepers”. We marked their skulls
and proceeded as per standard procedure in such cases.

Upon reaching the fort’s waterway, we found the newfound ruler of Kogoruhn and
the clear cause of the disappearances. A necrotic figure greeted us, a Sixth
Houseman we now know as Dagoth Baler, self proclaimed Examinate Savant. The name
was fitting, to say the least. He was eager to tell us of his first death and of
the undeath that awaited us. Statements melodramatic if not for the rising of
dozens of corpses from the waterway, bloated and mindless. New servants for the
lost house. When asked why he did not revive his fallen brothers instead of
resorting to kidnapped stock, he told us that no expert of death or mender of
ash could restore the dreams of a dead god.

We lost Velaso in the ensuing struggle. I would claimed she died well but lies
do not become an Armiger. We know our duty and give our services gladly. What
can be said for her sacrifice is that Baler is slain and those in his thrall
have found the peace of a final death. We marked their skulls and proceeded as
per standard procedure in such case. Wishing to properly enact the rite of the
coda flowers for our departed sister, it was decided that Giras would inspect a
nearby cavern system, so that we might not be interrupted. By the time the rite
was concluded, he had not returned.

Navigation of the tunnels lead us within the Ghostfence and near the base of
Red, explaining how the Sharmat’s forces made their way to Kogoruhn. Most
importantly, we were deposited near the Vemynal and a quick survey of the land
by Armiger Darai lead to the conclusion that Giras took refuge in the citadel.
Initial search found nothing; it is well known, the story of the Incarnate’s
assault here and the curious case of the Sempiternal Dancer.

We found Giras’ corpse in the citadel’s deepest bowels. He bore thirty six
wounds in total and six daggers rest in his body: one through each hand, a
matching pair for his feet, one through his skull, and the last in his heart. A
note rested on the body, which I have sent alongside this report. We hope that
the Deputy Marshal takes this news in stride. I continue alongside Athvi towards
Odrosal. We will make camp and await the second squad’s arrival.

Walk ever in the path of the coupled,

—Senior Armiger Felaren Hlerano

> **Lesson One:** Pain. You know nothing of it and so we grant you this lesson.
> Feel the pain of sundering and know some measure of truth. May your bones be
> ash and your blood flames. May your teeth be daggers and your tongue a snake.
> May your eyes be muddied water. Do so and you might one day known heaven.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Two:** Sound. Ever beating, the Doom Drum. Listen keenly. Understand
> that music ends where it begins. Learn your cadence and then learn the refusal
> of music. For aurals made keen can do little else.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Three:** Steel. Temper yourself as you would a blade. Become a
> walking forge.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Four:** Ash. Break yourself down into powder and then learn to walk.
> Then, forever walk like a god.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Five:** Joy. Embrace your fragile nature. All things valuable are
> able to be broken. Examine the effect of wind on stone.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Six:** Leather. Tear your skin and invite the biting air. Then, skin
> your brother.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Six:** Survive. Survive. Survive. Survive. Survive. Survive. Six
> times will make it so.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Seven:** Royalty. Melt down crowns. Feed the mixture to the king.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Eight:** Death. If you wish to die, try to wake up. Fail. If the sum
> of the equation does not add up, you will truly know nothingness.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Nine:** Patience. Mountains will always surpass your efforts. Yet,
> even mountains can erupt in anger.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Ten:** Multiplication. Understand the importance of three. Then
> double that knowledge. Welcome seven hundred and twenty.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Eleven:** Gold. Make it into armor. Give it to your foe. This is the
> purest application of guile that might ever occur.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twelve:** Souls. Keep your own in a cage but do not lock it. The
> ambitious will reach for your soul. The useless will let it be. Befriend the
> untrustworthy.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Thirteen:** Magic. What we know as magic is little more than ego
> given application. The soul’s calculus.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Fourteen:** Plots. Eschew them. Reject the catalyst. Reverse the
> formula.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Fifteen:** Princes. Speak their name they are undone. Even Princes
> bow to a king.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Sixteen:** Humility. Anathema to progress. You may either languish in
> your timorousness or thrive in self love. You are. Everything else is not.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Seventeen:** Heart. Ignore the noise.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Eighteen:** Dreams. Six times will make them so. But they are
> slippery as worms and die as easily. It is easier to dive through a star than
> it is to dream six times straight.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Nineteen:** Terror. It is also known as silence and will always
> follow you.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty:** Age. The when matter less than the where.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty One:** Shadow. Note how even the darkest brothers have black
> hands.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty Two:** Clocks. Compare to a heart. Know that one is stronger
> than the other.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty Three:** Coal. Bathe in it daily.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty Four:** Jungles. What they are is not what they were.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty Five:** Towers. Fear not that they might fall. We can build
> more.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty Six:** Sun. Someone put her in a box. She was once a queen. Do
> not court her.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty Seven:** Words. Mere conventions. Truth defies words.
> Quantities are estimations.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty Eight:** Sets. Are always empty with no exception.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Twenty Nine:** Voice. Few truly have spoken. If you wish to speak,
> the mouth is the worst messenger.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Thirty:** Choice. The denominator is ten.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Thirty One:** Mercy. A multheaded beast. Leave only one.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Thirty Two:** Expansion. Do not wait for the gods. You have the
> toolset. Use it.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Thirty Three:** Paradoxes. Everything is a lie until you see it. Once
> seen, it is still a lie.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Thirty Four:** Emptiness. _________.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Thirty Five:** Foolishness. Do not challenge a smith with a blade.

<!-- -->

> **Lesson Thirty Six:** Mathematics. Learn your numbers. Seek patterns. All
> things have patterns. They are the only true thing you will ever find.

<!-- -->

> The ending of the words is **UR**. The sum of the equation is **∅**.

[Continued here][1]

[0]: ./1yg2pu
[1]: ./24fm5c
