---
series: "Landfall: Day -1"
part: 5
title: Quietus
subtitle: Day 1
reddit: 1z58xr
author: hircine1
date: 2014-02-28T02:39:35Z
---

Akulavarine finds Numidium in High Rock under attack from a dozen squadrons of
Hist bombers. Floating mats of plant and trees rain down exploding seeds of
devastation.

Numidium angrily swats at the plants, its hand becoming ensnared in the roots.
The bombardment ceases, only to be replaced by rappelling figures. Argonians.
Smiling, a glint of hope in her eyes, Nerervar joins them as an Argonian.
Hermaphrodite. You never know when you’ll want to fuck yourself.

Akulavarine fires a salvo of irrational numbers at Numidium’s legs, knocking It
to one knee. Argonians pull an eye from Numidium and flee to their floating
swamps. More roots fall and bind the golem.

Nerervar urges Akulakhan forward, yanks a control rod and backflips. Two giant
brass feet collide with Numidium’s head snapping it back, cogs and gears falling
like rain.

The profane Dwemeri abomination roars, growing in size. It doubles, no triples
in size. Roots snap and Numidium destroys several of the Hist bombers. Those
remaing retreat.

Akulavarine grows to match.

DUMAC DWARF-ORC! YOU CANNOT REFUSE US! WERE YOU NOT IN OUR WEDDING? STOP THIS OR
THIS TIME I WILL EAT YOUR HEART!

The titans now tower over Tamriel, standing far above the clouds.

NO!

Numidium reaches out with an enormous, tremendous, \[thesaurus insufficient]
hand, grabs Masser and smashes it into Akulavarine’s chest.

Reeling, Nerervar tries to stay upright. Huge shards of armor fall, but those
pale in comparson to the HALF A FUCKING MOON which crashes into down onto that
poor starry heart that is Tamriel.

Earthquakes, Red Year, nothing could compare to this sort of geological damage.
The planet itself begins to crack.

NERERVAR! ABANDON…LOST CONTROL – Seht’s mechanical voice takes on the tone of
panic.

Looking down into the broken world, the legendary wheels of Lull were visible.
Spinning clockwise, some counterclockwise. Were those eyes? Nerervar blinked,
then quickly shrunk back to normal size, dodging a kick.

Akulavarine sprints towards.Cyrodiil, leaping over the newly exposed lava, a new
mountain range that was once the moon, and the whirring gears and wheels of the
world. Nerervar secretly suspected that was Seht himself, but didn’t want to
think too deeply about the implications or consequences.

Walk Brass follows, shrinking to match Akulavarine A hail of differential
fractions pelts Numidium, knocking more spikey plates from its shell.

NO!

Back to fisticuffs. Akulavarine’s fist, surrounded in flames, bashes Numidium
again and again. Numidium returns the favor.

Clutching onto one of Numidium’s spiky chest plates is one lone Argonian. On
instinct, Nerervar pulls Wabbajack from his belt. He points at the Argonian,
what’s the worst that could happen?

The Argonian disappears, replaced with Zurin Arctus; Imperial Battlemage of
Tiber Septim; Underking.

The Underking reaches out one boney finger, touching the glowing jewel in
Numidum’s chest. The Mantella. Its power source.

ZURIN ARCTUS RECLAIMS HIS SOUL

Numidium explodes.

Nerervar recalls herself to Secunda; prophecy fulfilled.

Akulakhan is torn in half by the exploding Brass God. It falls to Nirn outside
Kvatch.

The explosion knocks Numidium back (well most of it). It falls into a crack in
the world; pulverized by the wheels of Lull.

## Epilogue

The sky outside Kvatch turns red.

Much like the start of the Oblivion Crisis in the 3^rd^ Era, an Oblivion gate
erupts outside Kvatch.

The four arms of Mehrunes Dagon tear open the chest of Akulakhan. They
delicately pull the Elder Scroll from its chest cavity.

For the first time this kalpa; the Leaper Demon King smiles. And LEAPS.
