---
title: The Disappearance of the Orcs, Part One
series: The Disappearance of the Orcs
part: 1
hide_series: true
reddit: 1z724o
author: Lord_Hoot
date: 2014-02-28T17:59:59Z
---

The king strode through the corridors of the Iron Palace, attended by his
bodyguards and hovering soulmirrors that projected charts, figures and aerial
views of the city’s defences. A chattering filled his head as the whisperfeed
passed on updates from the perimeter.

SWORD SWARMS INBOUND AT 190-196 DEGREES

SHELL INTEGRITY HOLDING

FOUR WRAITHBOMB SALVOES IN THE PAST HOUR, THIRTY SIX SHELLS PER BARRAGE

SHELL INTEGRITY HOLDING

OGRIM MARTYR ASSAULT CONCENTRATED AT 88 DEGREES AND INCREASING IN INTENSITY

SHELL INTEGRITY HOLDING

Business as usual. The dull thud of the wraithbombs could be heard even in his
inner chambers, superheating the air as their magickal energies hit the Shellweb
and converted into manageable but intense flashes of heat and light. The
perimeter would hold, as it had held true for almost six centuries now. Orcish
engineering at its finest.

The king paused briefly at a gallery that gave him a broad view over the city.
Beneath him Orsinium sprawled. No, not sprawled; that implied it was haphazard
in construction. The city was ordered with cryptomathematical precision, a star
shape with eight promontories and sixteen orbiting settlements, with the palace
rising as a great spire in the centre. Half a million souls, numbers ruthlessly
maintained, living beneath the great dark Ferrochalcum dome of the Shell. For
six hundred years the only stars the Orcish peoples had seen were the glowing
green runes that flickered in and out of existence on the dome’s inner surface,
relaying the conditions on the outside and broadcasting civic propaganda. The
king surveyed his realm for a moment and resumed his course.

As he entered the throne room the autoherald leapt into action, announcing his
arrival in a booming voice.

“His excellency high chief Gortwog gro-Gortwog gro-Gortwog gra-Gortwog
gro-Gortwog gra-Gortwog gra-Gortwog gro…”

The king batted the hovering autoherald away irritably. It flew into the stone
wall and shattered. Immediately the repair mechanisms activated and its pieces
glowed white and flowed together.

“Sixty-one generations, every fucking time!” Gortwog exclaimed to nobody in
particular. “You all know who I am! What’s the need for this piece of crap?”

**_I KNOW WHO YOU ARE, YOU PITIFUL MAGGOT_**, said a voice from the centre of
the chamber.

Technicians and seers filled the throne room as usual, and all ignored the
voice, again as usual. One figure strode towards the king, all business.

“Gortwog”, she grunted.

“Citizen Vorga”, he acknowledged her with a nod. “Any updates?”

Vorga was high bishop of the Fane of the Bloodied Wretch. She was young and
idealistic, but like all the others present she wore the scars of the Long Siege
with pride on her face and forearms.

“Nothing much, chief. Our guest says he’s in contact with Sheogorath, and that
he’s gonna come and eat our eyes or something…”

**_MY BROTHER WILL PLANT HOT COALS IN YOUR BRAIN AND WE WILL DROWN YOU IN THE
BLOOD OF YOUR ANCESTORS, SCUMLICKER!_**

The two continued to ignore the speaker. “He’s getting less inventive”, Gortwog
said. “I think being in the throne room weakens him somehow”

“It’s true”, Vorga responded. “He liked it when we diverted the latrine through
here. It’s the humiliation”

The king stroked his patchy white beard. “We can do that again maybe. I don’t
remember why we stopped”

“Because that Dominion avatar slipped in shit and we had to postpone
negotiations?”

“Ha, yeah”

Gortwog finally turned his direct attention on the centre of the chamber.
Directly in front of the throne, on which lay the sacred femur of Gortwog (the
original Gortwog, supposedly), was a glimmering tesseract that warped and
distorted as one walked around it and saw it from different angles. The
tesseract was surrounded by a ring of hallucinating seers who chanted constant
adulation at the glaring being trapped within the impossible shape.

**_WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU LOOKING AT YOU GREEN FREAK?!_**

The being’s name was Malak, and it was God.

> A tale of the Landfall, and of the final day of the Orcish race. More to come.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
