---
title: The Seed of Matter
subtitle: A Rebuttal by Betham Nchurthumz
reddit: 1z8hly
author: 67justsomeguy67
date: 2014-03-01T03:05:18Z
about: |
  This was originally split into two parts, the second being [here][0].

  [0]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1zdsek/the_seed_of_matter_a_rebuttal_by_betham/
---

For years now, our scientists have pierced into the natural laws of our world
and unwound the mysteries of our world, Mundus. We have seen the yolk and the
shell, but now that we have pierced into the heart of the one whom the
superstitious claim created us all, the entire sphere, and set everything into
motion, the one known as Lorkhan, we have learned some of what makes the sphere
of creation tick, what gears work to keep things going and how they were crafted
and set in motion. Now we have seen the outer shell, and many are offended by
what they see.

Many, including even Kagrenac, though wise he may be, have been fooled by the
inherent contradiction of the outer shell. They believe that because the world
around us is not, therefore we are not. They have seen that we are but a
thought, and in this realization, they believe that we aren’t and are but a
fantasy. These wise fools then go on to say that we must use the organ of life
that once belonged to the one who created the sphere to bring us out of the
yolk. This is not only a false belief, but a dangerous one, destined to fail.

Some have taken to the belief of “we are not” with the vigor of those mer of the
yellow skin, who zealously cling to their old ways of giving divinity to their
elders simply for no longer walking among us in the physical world, or the other
mer far to the west, who believe we should venerate the “divine” who supposedly
created all things, when we know this not to be entirely true. They have turned
reason into religion, and have become a cult themselves. I will now take the
time to explain to these religious fanatics of the “we are not” cult why they
are destined to fail.

First, we must realize the implications of using the heart of what many consider
a god to take us back to the beginning. The way that the high architects plan on
doing this is to create a physical form surrounding the heart, and, with the
power of tens of thousands of Dwemer, to deny the very thing the heart’s former
owner thought, or created. They have foolishly come up with this plan without
proper research, and have rushed to conclusions. With growing tensions with the
men of the North West they have not done enough scientific studies on the heart,
and have done very little on the former owner of it.

This may seem unscientific when you first look at it; the study of a supposed
divine, something many would consider the work of a religion, but read my
reasoning. Though reality may not be real, the heart is physical, and its very
existence implies the existence of the one to whom it belonged to. Even if that
being is considered by some to be divine, would it not be logical to dive
further into the study of what is said about this being? Would it not stand to
reason to study the writings and beliefs of those who venerate this being, and
to throw off the outer shell of superstition to expose the yolk of truth that
lies underneath? To truly understand the heart, it would be wise to understand
the body the heart once belonged to, especially since many are planning to
create a new body surrounding it.

I have delved into some of the writings surrounding the one called “Lorkhan”,
and have discovered something interesting. We may not want to admit it, but what
we have discovered in the brief time of the last 500 years or so, has already
been discovered by this one the superstitious call divine, or at the very least
has been written about this being by some of the ones we have regarded as fools.
This “Lorkhan” has also supposedly pierced into the void, the vast nothingness
that is true reality, the “is not”. And it is here that we come to a dilemma.
How, I ask you, can a being see that everything is not, and yet still be? This
is a perplexing phenomenon, and something many of our own who would see it (if
they took the time to study “superstitious” beliefs, which they don’t) would
regard as a fallacy typical of the primitive beliefs of the other races, who
don’t possess the ability to reason like our own. We must see past our
prejudice, and as I wrote before, pierce the shell of superstition to see the
yolk of truth beneath.

What realization would “Lorkhan” come to in order to not only continue his
belief in his existence afterwards, but to supposedly create a new layer of
existence under his own (though with the help of the other “divines” he
supposedly tricked)? I propose that this being looked at the void, and at first
hastily came to the conclusion we did, “all is not”. But afterwards, there must
have been something that triggered a thought that is the foundation of all our
logic, and thus all our civilization for thousands of years. This thought is as
follows, “I reason, therefore I am.” This thought, that reason and thought is
the basis of all reality, that everything in existence can be reasoned with,
explained, and eventually through this process, molded and hammered into shape
by the one who reasoned, is something we Dwemer have championed for time
immemorial. This explains why he was not only able to maintain his form in the
face of the void, but also why he supposedly created our sphere of existence,
Mundus, in the first place.

“Lorkhan” at that moment saw existence much as a Dwemer sees existence,
something that is describable in reasonable terms and therefore able to be
manipulated to their whim. He had seen the something, or the maybe that he came
from, and then saw the nothing that was outside of it. It is therefore ironic
that a supposed god and that god’s followers would be able to reason more than
my fellow Dwemer. It is understandable though. As our scientists pierced into
the heart of said “god” and saw the void, everything we have stood for since we
began keeping record has come undone. Our belief that everything is describable
through reason is contradicted by the fact that reality isn’t real. Perhaps we
Dwemer have come to the point which other races had reached before us; not
knowing what to make of the world around us and thus creating elaborate fictions
to describe reality. Our race’s most recent elaborate fiction is that we are
not, since everything is not. This, though an anti-thesis to the beliefs of the
superstitious, is itself almost as ignorant a belief and just as dangerous as
the cults that surround us.

The goal of our recent great endeavor, is to bring our race back to the
beginning, and this is a grand idea with a decent amount of reason and research
to back it up, but a decent amount of research just doesn’t do the job. You
cannot forge a masterpiece of armor or a nearly flawless hammer made of our
metal with the metallurgic knowledge of one of the lesser races. This is exactly
what Dwemer like Kagrenac are doing, attempting to build a divine suit of armor
using nearly divine tools with the “metallurgic” knowledge of a Dwemer. Though
we as a race like to boast, we are not yet knowledgeable enough in the ways of
the “divine” to actually achieve something akin to divinity. We haven’t even
carried our own thought process through almost to the end like “Lorkhan”
supposedly did in the tale of before creation. “Lorkhan” succeeded in forging a
new creation out of his inherently Dwemer thought process, and I fear our
potential creation will fail to be as stable as the one he supposedly created.

Imagine a giant suit of armor, worn by the entire Dwemer race, with the belief
of the “we are not” cult. It would be an ignorant religious fanatic with the
power of a god, something worse than the Daedra and Aedra. If this “god” mantled
by our entire race were to use this dangerous belief with divine powers, it
could do to Mundus what the first discovery of the nothing did to our belief in
reason, unravel it until it is but a husk of what it once was. I propose that
instead of going forward with our plan to mantle this colossus with our current
knowledge, we devote time to learning more about the main power source of it,
and indeed, the colossus it used to inhabit. I and my colleagues have spent
numerous years studying this, regrettably in secret due to it’s controversy, but
there is yet much to be discovered. We know what thought process “Lorkhan” had
that supposedly enabled him to continue to be in the presence of nothing and
then create another state of being, but we still know not what triggered the
thought in the first place, nor what the full implications of said thought would
be. I request more research to be done on this topic before we continue.

Furthermore, I implore Kagrenac, who is wise, and has a dedication to the
Dwemeri unseen in many others, to not go through with his plan to create the
Numidium without further study. If you truly want what is best for your people,
do not let them mantle a new “god” until this cult-like belief in the “we are
not” dies down, for the sake of the Dwemer people. We could potentially undo
ourselves and no longer be the bastion of reason Mundus so desperately needs.

-Betham Nchurthumz: Arch Scholar on Studies of the Other Races.
