---
series: The Eight Anecdotes of Perakeluin
part: 7
title: Peryite Lends Akatosh His Shape
reddit: 1zq0c5
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-03-06T14:56:38Z
---

Deep in the bowels of the Secret Places (which the former trapped spirits now
known as the mortals of Mundus called Oblivion), Peryite suddenly felt an itch
that he could not scratch.

“Why am I itching this inferno ghost-itch?” He shouted in his Pits, and his
Lesser Spirits suddenly ran off to grab their tools just in case the Taskmaster
broke the non-air again. “Wait, I’ve never had an itch before.”

And this was very true. For as the Prince of Pestilence he was very used to
making other people itch, but he had had an itch before himself. Maybe a cough
or two here and there (or eight thousand or three), but never an itch. Peryite
didn’t even know he could itch before.

This was causing the Taskmaster to think really deep, and he was starting to
dislike it. So he decided to find the source of this itch. And so he chased this
ghost-itch across the seas of Oblivion, which poured from his basin and flowed
into the Mundus, and suddenly he found himself in the Dusk of the Dawn.

“Where am I now?”

“TAM! RUGH!”

Peryite tilted his head, and turned to look at where the annoying shout had come
from, and stared at the little furred thing that stood below him.

“Hmph, why have you summoned me mortal? It is not my summoning day. Speak,
fool.”

“AKA! TOSH!”

“…What?”

“TAM! RUGH!”

“It looks like someone here needs to read the New Tome of New Words. Which is
sad, since no one even reads that anymore.”

“PERRY! RIGHT!”

“Excuse me?” The Taskmaster rears upwards to his true height (and as a Greater
Spirit, his true height is not true so he continues to grow and grow and grow)
and stares down at the furred thing below him.

“You dare call me out of name? You will pay for your insolence, mortal!” The
Taskmaster lifts his deaden wings and prepares to strike when the furred
creature lifts up a hand and the Daedric Prince finds himself bound.

“PERRY! RIGHT!”

“What is the meaning of this? Why am I restrained?” Peryite looks around, and
notices that he is on top of a great Tower surrounded by more mortals. “Is this
some sort of ritual, mortal? Answer me this instant!”

“WHY! GOOD!”

“Why-Good? What is Why-Good?”

The furred mortal slams his knuckles on the ground and dances in place, and the
other mortals do so as well. The Taskmaster suddenly realizes that he feels
Not-All-Quite-Still-There, and grows even more angry and confused.

“What is happening to me? Am I falling but climbing apart? Why am I falling but
climbing apart?”

“TAM! RUGH!”

“Stop shouting such nonsense and answer my question mortal! By the foundation of
this mortal plane when I become unbound to this ritual your soul will be mine!”

“AKA! TOSH!”

“STOP YELLING AKA – no, no it cannot be. What are you doing? Why do you use that
name.”

And then the fabric of the universe ripped apart and Peryite saw the coming of
the creatures he had not seen for countless years and un-years and years since
there were any years.

“Greetings, Peryite.”

“Hello, Peryite.”

“Ho Ha Ho, Peryite.”

The former Little Dragon stares with much horror and surprise to see his
shedding-brothers, his Parts-Of-Him-That-Weren’t-Him, and finds himself almost
speechless.

“Auri-El…Alkosh…Alduin…?”

And then suddenly a new figure walked through the fabric, and now it was not
mere mirror but the same Dawn that they had all been present at except the
Little Dragon himself, but this time in a different state that was still him.

“SAY! HARD!”

“What is this?” Peryite asked yet again, for the second or the thousand time he
did not know because the Mortal Plane had become infinite and that was not
supposed to happen.

And then Shezzar, who was just a shedding done on purpose, traveled to the
middle of the broken Dawn and he became a new light that faded away on partly.

“Farewell, Peryite.”

“Auri-El…?”

And then the Now of Time threw a piece of himself into the light, and slowly
vanished and it was like he was never there to begin with. The light grew into a
shape that had no form.

“Bye, Peryite.”

“Alkosh…?”

And then the Impatience of Time threw a piece of himself into the light, and
slowly vanished and it was like he was never there to begin with. The light grew
into an even bigger shape, but it still had no form.

“Gone, Peryite.”

“Alduin…?”

And then the End of Time threw a piece of himself into the light, and slowly
vanished and it was like he was never there to begin with. The light grew into
an even bigger shape, but alas it still had no form.

“PERRY! RIGHT!”

The Taskmaster looks on in astonishment, finally understanding what is going on
and why he is there.

“I’m still a…”

“AKA! TOSH!”

The Taskmaster nodded, and looks on at the ball of light and the shape within it
pulsing like a great heart. Below on the Tower eight small rods shift and become
one as a star falls down from the sky.

“Be me, Akatosh. Be the me I cannot be anymore.”

And then the Order of Time threw a piece of himself into the light, and slowly
vanished and it was like he was never there to begin with.

The light exploded and the Dawn ended.

“ALL HAIL AKATOSH!”

“TAM! RUGH!”
