---
title: The “Missing Legions”
subtitle: Reflecting on Eastern Province History and Historiography
reddit: 1zqe9s
author: Blackfyre87
date: 2014-03-06T17:22:14Z
---

Praise Stendarr! Praise Reman! I’m Blackfyre and I’d like to talk to you
about…the Imperial Legion. Specifically, the alleged withdrawal of the Imperial
Legion from the Provinces to defend Cyrodiil during the Oblivion Crisis.

What I am discussing today is a topic I’ve had to wrestle with considerably in
my writing of _Through Eastern Eyes_, a history of the East and Empire during
the Fourth Era, told from the perspective of the Eastern Peoples (Nords, Dunmer,
Argonians, Nibenese and, I suppose, due to their military nature, Colovians).
This is, in part, the extent to which the Imperial Legion withdrew to defend
Cyrodiil at the expense of the Easterners (and other provincials). But it is
more than that. In truth, this is really the question of what constitutes a
strong, verifiable and useable source. My background is in History and Classical
Studies, and I studied law (very badly) as well, and I so I think I can give
this endeavor a decent shot.

## THE WITHDRAWAL THEORY

This theory, which has led to much fury among both Stormcloak supporters and
among Dunmer-philes and lovers of the Saxhleel, states that the Imperial Legion
withdrew from the provinces to defend Cyrodiil, betraying the trust of the
people of the Empire.

In the wake of this withdrawal, House Hlaalu was stripped of its great house
status. It is, so far as I am aware, Adril Arano who is chiefly responsible for
this bit of information- and indeed, for the notion that the Legion did in fact
withdraw. There may be others who forward bits of info like this, but I believe
this notion chiefly comes from Adril. There may be other individuals who say
similar things.

Similarly, during one of his many interactions with Annaig, Mere-Glim of Lilmoth
tells us that “the Empire didn’t beat Dagon in Black Marsh” and that he is
absolutely convinced that this was entirely due to the actions of the An-Xileel.

Also, we are told, in relation to the Great War, that “the Empire all but turned
a blind eye to the other provinces”, which may further indicate that the Empire
was willing to leave its citizens to rot to save Cyrodiil. It does need to be
noted that Cyrodiil is the heart and wealthiest part of the Empire. It would be
folly to leave it defenseless.

This theory is typically considered as gospel, and perhaps it has elements of
truth. But the more I have considered it (and I have considered it a great
deal), this theory does seem to lack merit.

## THE EVIDENCE AGAINST

The first, and most blistering argument against this theory is that retelling of
the history of the Fourth Era, especially military history, is, even to a
generous historian, remarkably vague, with the narrative approaching the point
of myth or folklore. More accurately, it would be fair to say that only three
things happened in the Fourth Era: the Red Mountain Erupted, the Thalmor took
power, then the Great War occurred.

Even in the case of the Great War (including Markarth and Hammerfell), there are
so many contradictions and differing accounts of the matter that at times it
seems, at times, like a couple of skirmishes around Lake Rumare, and others, as
though the end of days of Tamriel was occurring.

Of extremely significant contrast against the withdrawal is the outright refusal
by Ocato, Chancellor of the Empire, to levy any active legion support in the
most crucial battle of the Oblivion Crisis (the Battle of Bruma, Quest: Allies
for Bruma). Of course, the Chancellor could be lying, misinformed, plotting for
the throne himself or planning on a big Imperial Legion cookup with his buddies
on that day. But this goes rather against the chancellor’s character. He was
generally reckoned a trustworthy servant of the Empire, and Uriel VII had left
him in charge of the government for 30 years. If he were plotting to take over,
he had more than ample opportunity before and afterward.

The Imperial Legion (sans town guard) is effectively absent from Oblivion. The
Blades and their supporters are the sword of the Empire here. Admittedly, this
is also good reason to think that troops might have excellent reason to return
to Cyrodiil.

But, at no point in the Black Horse Courier, one of the biggest pro-Imperial
propaganda sources available, do the publishers of the newspaper mention
_“Triumphant return of our heroic troops from the provinces to save the
prosperous heart of the Empire”_. Surely a beleaguered province would be beset
by news of this sort to aid morale of the people? But no rumors, rumors which
mention the rise of the Thalmor and the return of the Saxhleel to Black Marsh,
mention any troops returning to Cyrodiil.

Also, the Imperial Legions are not merely Nibenese and Colovians. A cursory
glance of the list of legionnaires in _Morrowind_ shows a substantial number of
Orcs, Nords and Redguards. And Dunmer are present too. The Legion is not simply
an imported body, but has local elements too. The Oblivion Crisis occurred in
all provinces of Tamriel. Pehaps the Legion simply dispersed. But if Imperials
returned to Cyrodiil, and other folk to their home provinces, surely Dunmer
legionnaires and those who were resident in Morrowind would have stayed to
defend their homes and families?

Well, this isn’t an entirely accurate picture of the situation either. Because
unlike the Stormcloaks and the Redoran Guard etc, etc, the Legion is not a
seasonal militia that musters to fight then retuns home to till the field. They
are a professional army. They do not stop being legionnaires after battle. The
Legion is a life. If one considers both modern and ancient professional
soldiers, a legionnaire’s family and property would more than likely be in their
assigned province with them. Their reason to fight, if not for the Emperor and
Empire, would be with them. Assuming that rumors in Oblivion, aside from those
concerning Mudcrabs and Goblins are indicative of some level of knowledge among
the commons, we might presume some awareness of the rest of Tamriel. And if the
commoners had some knowledge of the other provinces (something that seems
conspicuously lacking in _Skyrim_), the Legion would almost certainly have
greater knowledge than the commoners; they would be aware that, considering the
global nature of the Great Anguish, Cyrodiil is not necessarily a safer bet than
Morrowind or Black Marsh or more or less in need of aid.

Might the Legion have disintegrated without pay? Well, perhaps; this definitely
happened in Greece and Rome. The Legion _is_ a patriotic force, but they are
also professional soldiers. But Ocato definitely seems to suggest that the
Legion was fully committed and that the Elder Council was a fully active, and
continuously functional government. For example, in Morrowind, surely if Adril
Arano’s suggestion that Hlaalu were powerless without the Empire is true, Hlaalu
would have bankrolled and taken control of the situation to ensure that the
foundation of their house did not collapse. Greedy Hlaalu may have been, stupid,
they are not. Also, House Redoran had a respectful relationship with the Legion,
and letting good soldiers ship out when a horde of Dremora are screaming for
your blood is not wise. The same principles could be applied to those client
vassals in each province that were Imperial aligned- Daggerfall, Sentinel,
Orsinium, Solitude- these groups would have assuredly made some effort to shore
up the Legion.

Additionally, the fact that the Oblivion Crisis was everywhere connects to the
theory that the Legion abandoned the Reach during the Great War. The Legion
shipped to where it was needed. Which, at the time, did not seem to be the
Reach. In the context of the Oblivion Crisis, that was happening everywhere.
Thus, the Legion was needed everywhere.

Additionally, the Legion mentions that they have _“always”_ been in Skyrim. Not
necessarily true, because the legion is hardly going to say _“except for that
one time we abandoned the Nords, Dunmer and Argonians to save Cyrodiil”_. But it
bears thought that the Legion does not consider itself a body that abandons the
provinces in need. Moreover, Legion military history, as shown in _Report:
Disaster at Ionith_ shows that Legion protocol does not put itself in positions
where it would allow the Empire to collapse in its wake.

Also, in reference to Mere-Glim’s point, it is worth noting two things; firstly,
both Annaig and Glim are blind drunk at the time they are having the
conversation about what the An-Xileel and the Empire have, respectively, done.
Second, Annaig even retorts back to Glim that he has been reading/absorbing way
too much An-Xileel propaganda.

Moreover, with regard to Adril Arano, it does need to be taken into account that
he is part of a ruling government. A politician. He is a Redoran of Raven Rock.
It must be taken into account that at some point, perhaps after the Ebony Ran
out in the late fourth era, the East Empire Trading Company _did_ abandon
Solstheim. One look at Raven Rock, and you can see the penury to which this
withdrawal has reduced the people of the town to. They are reliant on goodwill
from traders like Gjalund to meet their need for supplies. They are impoverished
and have very little coin (for an example, see _House Redoran’s Reply_). All
regimes need to shore up their legitimacy, and one of House Redoran’s claims is
that they (not the Empire) rescued Morrowind. We need to take the gung-ho pride
of Adril Arano with a dash of salt.

## CONCLUSION

Of course, people will still have their “headcanon” (I dislike that term) and
their own interpretation of sources and the events. But this is simply my
interpretation. And that is that, quite simply, it does not add up that the
Imperial Legion would simply up and leave because of a horde of Dremora and that
much military history we are given in Skyrim is rather unreliable.

As always, I look forward to hearing the views of my peers and discussing the
matter.
