---
series: Femininity in Tamrielic Faith
part: 2
title: Kyne
reddit: 205cnu
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2014-03-11T16:23:30Z
---

Like [Part 1 of this series][0], I am going to address how the Nordic Kyne is
represented. We will focus primarily on her representation of the Feminine,
using _Shor Son of Shor_ as our primary source.

This post was actually harder to write than the one on Mara, not sure why. I
hope I give Kyne her due. She is my favourite.

## Kyne, Queen of the Nords, Kiss at the End, War-Wife to Shor, Mother of Tears

One of the first things that stood out to me was, why Mother of Tears? If Mara
is the Tear-Wife, why does _she_ not bear the title of Mother of Tears?

The Nords assign Kyne that title because legend has it that when Shor died, Kyne
wept, and her tears became the first rain to fall on Tamriel. Kyne also referred
to herself as such in C0DA. In the chaos of the Grey Maybe, it was Kyne/Kynareth
that made room for creation, sheltering it so it would not come apart, tearing
apart the weak so the strong could have room. The Tears belong to Mara, but
without Kyne there would be no Creation and Mara would have no reason to cry.
This is why Mara is the handmaiden; she may be the Mother, but Kyne is the
Matriarch.

A matriarch. What comes to mind when we picture a matriarch? A dignified older
woman; children grown, or maybe a childless woman who became head of a business,
clan or noble house, sometimes she is a queen. She is a woman who transcends the
feminine dichotomy of sensuality and fecundity, or simply ages past them.
Unencumbered by the stereotypes of youth, she can assume more traditionally
masculine roles and exert her power outside the traditionally feminine sphere.
Kyne is all these things; all the while maintaining a distinctly and almost
universally female identity.

The matriarch also shoulders the burden of a great melancholy. If childless,
sometimes there is regret, envy or jealousy about it. If she did have children
(spiritual or literal, doesn’t matter), sometimes those children must be sent to
fight and die for her cause. The Queen sometimes has to stand by and watch her
dominion crumble away, everything she worked for, fought for, made room for. I
dare say her sadness is deeper than Mara’s because Kyne does not have the
distraction of always making something new. Often Kyne only sees the battle and
the end.

For this is why she is the War-Wife, and why she is so sad. She was the first to
agree to Shor’s plan, his greatest ally, defender, enabler and it is she who
picked up his cause and continued the fight after he died. Kyne fought to give
shape and strength to the Nords, she helped Paarthurnax gain mastery over his
nature, and she helped give shape to countless beasts and nature spirits, all
through her simultaneously destructive and sheltering qualities. Kyne not only
engages in conflict, she _embodies_ it.

Consider her Dovah name, Kaan, Kiss at the End. The End of what? To a
more-or-less immortal Aka-Shard of a dragon, what is the End? Not the End of
their life cycle because they have not one, but of all cycles. Consider the
Thu’um, Kyne’s Peace. The Peace of the Kiss at the End, where the animals do not
flee, instead they accept their deaths with calm aplomb. Peace for Kyne means
death.

In _Shor son of Shor_, Kyne is confused and irritated that she does not get her
kiss, but is wise enough to know that she will understand when the dawn breaks
and the twilight is lifted. When the Dawn comes, the fighting begins again, and
she returns to the battlefield, clear in her intention and purpose once again.

Apparently to the Nords, when the spirit of the Void embraces the War-Wind
spirit, that is the End of All. That is a very interesting and powerful image to
me, like the negatively charged cumulonimbus cloud towering over the positively
charged earth, and then their energies clashing in an explosion of plasma and
electricity, wreaking absolute havoc before completely dissipating in a shower
of light. And we thought _Dibella_ was the Goddess of sexual energy! Actually
all three of the Nordic Goddesses represent certain aspects of female
sexuality/sensuality, but that is a discussion I want to save until I have had a
chance to give Dibella her due in this series.

I would like to conclude this post with a confession about how these posts have
changed my perception. I had always imagined Kyne as a rather ageless woman, but
if I had to draw her, she would have probably looked like Artemis, a slender
young huntress, a forest spirit, maybe with a big sword. This was wrong, and
simply a reflection of my own personal ageist bias. I realise now that to depict
Kyne as a young woman does not do her the justice she deserves. She is a
seasoned warrior, who has fought countless battles through countless cycles, and
who has wept countless times over the deaths of her husband and her children
(spiritual and/or literal, whatever you prefer). She would have rough hands,
grey in her hair, and if drawn as a mortal, maybe a few lines around the eyes
and mouth, marks of the strain of being the embodiment of change and conflict.
For once she finally gets her kiss, that will be the End of the fighting, which
is to say the end of the Arena. Peace at last, but the end of Nirn.

Let it be noted that even in C0DA, despite attending the bachelor party and
wedding with her husband, she still had not gotten her kiss. The battle
continues, somewhen and somewhere, and as long as Kyne is fighting, she is
making room for creation.

The next essay will be about the Nordic Dibella.

[0]: ./1zw5p0
