---
title: "The Adventurer’s Companion To Black Marsh: Blackrose"
subtitle: |
  "An Overview of Blackrose: Its Geography, History, Famous Inhabitants, and
  Outline"
reddit: 205hor
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-03-11T17:13:48Z
pseudonym: Eis Vuur Warden
---

> Written By: Eis Vuur Warden, Circa 3E 430 (Historian and Scholar of the
> Imperial Geographic Society)

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

## Overview

Only a few miles away from the city of Soulrest and concealed within the darkest
mud that sloshes like shadows in the night lies the notorious city of Blackrose.
It is probably the main city in Blackrose with the most diversity, but not for
good reason. For in its depths and nearly considered an actual part of the city
itself is the legendary Blackrose prison, which houses the most dangerous
criminals in Tamriel.

Strangely, however, many outsiders tend to live in Blackrose. But why is that?
Well, because it houses the securest prison within Tamriel, Blackrose also
functions as the safest city in Tamriel as well. Thus, many people live within
its sturdy walls. Thus, this guide was written to give the reader a better
perspective of Blackrose and its current condition today.

## Geography

Blackrose has a much muddier climate than other Argonian cities, and is well
known for its perpetual darkness. This darkness results from the presence of an
unique species of trees that appear have drowned with large canopies, resulting
in much sunlight being blocked from reaching the city.

However, the marsh itself has adapted to this unique situation. Many of the
mushrooms and ferns that cover the landscape are capable of self-illumination,
allowing my people and visitors to the city to see without the aid of torches,
which are dangerous to use near the great trees (along with the city-tree). The
air is tropical, but can also be somewhat chilly as well.

## History

Blackrose was founded by my ancestors’ vulpine neighbors – the Lilmothiit – as a
small kingdom. I do not how or why the city was constructed, but it was built
with black stone in the image of a flower. For reasons unknown, the kingdom fell
into disarray and its inhabitants left never to return. The Paatru were more
than eager to take over the land, and that is what they did. Soon the ruins of
the city became a bog of mud and torchbugs that was relatively peaceful.

All of that changed during the year the Cyrodiils refer to as 1E 1033, when a
terrible pirate king known simply as Red Bramman saw Black Marsh as the perfect
location to hide from the Empire’s authority. He sailed through our land and
eventually found himself at the remnants of Blackrose, which he and his fleet of
criminals violently took from the Paatru. As some of the first humans that my
kind met during that time, our people became both disgusted and fearful of them.
Red Bramman himself began to claim that he was unkillable, and that the Empire
would never take him alive. This caught the attention of Empress Hestra, who
made a public decree that the pirate-king will meet his end. The Imperials
fought their way though Black Marsh until reaching the ruins, where they were
able to capture the so called ‘king’. To avoid much conflict with the Argonian
tribes in the area, Hestra allowed our kind to keep Red Bramman imprisoned
within the very ruins he lived in. His final fate is unknown, but this was the
first incident regarding the area.

Later on during the Second Empire of Men, the Akaviri Potentate known as
Versidue-Shaie heard of the tale of Red Bramman, and commissioned for the area
to be constructed into a massive security prison for both his political enemies
and hated criminals. During the construction, the Imperial architects kept to
the original design the Lilmothiit had done so many years before and thought the
city resembled the petals of a rose and so they named it Blackrose.

The most recent event to happen in Blackrose was the Rose Rebellion during the
Septim Dynasty, where the prisoners inside the prison were able to overthrow the
guards and take over the city. Empress Morihatha immediately sent a garrison of
troops into Black Marsh to quell the threat, among them the prestige battlemage
Welloc. Having spent previous time in Black Marsh, Welloc was able to use his
arcane spells to destroy the rebellion and the prison was fortified like it had
never been before.

## Notable Inhabitants

One of the most well known residents of Blackrose was the serial killer known
simply as ‘The Riverman’. A terrifying soul, he was well known for luring many
of his victims to their deaths by masquerading as a ferryman, only to drown them
in the very river they wished to cross and eating their remains to leave no
evidence. He later committed suicide in his cell, but to this day many other
prisoners say that his ghost still haunts the halls moaning about the souls of
his victims, whose spirits he ate as well.

Another man, to contrast the evil one above, was the Blackrose guard Mailliw,
who many suspected was a descendant of one of the Kothringi tribes that bred
with the Imperials. A former criminal himself, he spent the rest of his days
aiding those like himself see the horrors of their actions and repent their
ways. He was also one of the last followers of the obscure deity Z’en, who many
say is Zenithar but who many say isn’t. Supposedly on his deathbed, his god used
his soul to bring great fortunate to Blackrose.

## City Outline

Blackrose consists of five major districts that are arranged and resemble a rose
petals. They are:

- **The Commercial Petal**: The Commercial Petal is where industry takes place.
  Our kind is well known for our jewelry, and Blackrose is built near many gem
  mines that contain much of my people’s lively hood.

- **The Market Petal**: The Market Petal is where trade and shop happens, and is
  nearly always full with noise and bustle from many types of vendors.

- **The Armed Petal**:The Armed Petal is the military quarters of Blackrose, and
  is conjointly operated by both Imperial and Argonian troops.

- **The Living Petal**:The Living Petal is the home district for the citizens of
  Blackrose. Because most of its inhabitants are ex-convicts released from their
  prison sentences, it is also patrolled by many guards.

- **The Rose**: The Rose is the prison which Blackrose is famous for, and is the
  city’s biggest building. Built with enchanted stone and surrounded with a
  thousand guards that are constant shifts every hour, the Rose is virtually
  impenetrable.

## Conclusion

And so ends the guide to Blackrose. For our next stop, we will be visiting the
troubled city of Archon, Tamriel’s most eastern point.
