---
title: Regarding the Sixth House
subtitle: Their Lords and Their Deeds
reddit: 2098cm
author: AlyxDinas
date: 2014-03-12T19:51:56Z
pseudonym: Senior Armiger Felaren Hlerano
---

What remains of the “lost” House Dagoth might be measured in piles of dust. The
Sharmat is gone, his blighted distemper washed from the land. His remaining
servants cower in caves, carving out tunnels like worms. Yet for each
investigation into the strongholds of the Sixth House and each annual
preserveration of the Incarnate’s path we learn more of their hierarchy, their
names, and their accomplishments. Much fits with the testimony given by the
Nerevarine and although we cannot fully ascertain elements such as the lives of
Sixth House members before their entrapment by the Sharmat, we have enough
information to form a confident record of their works during their subjection.
Thus we begin with the lords of the Sixth House, the beclouded kin now called
Nemer. They numbered six and one lost:

## Dagoth Araynys

Dirt Regent of Mamaea, called “Evermin” and “Keeper of the Photostatic Numen”.
Slain by the Incarnate. Appointed entrant of Vivec by the will of the Sharmat.
Chief artist of the Sixth House, memory was his chisel. Turning thought to
stone, he created the so called ash statues and propagated them throughout
Vvardenfell. Immune to the concept of distance and length, he carved as far as
Cyrodiil without impediment. From his etchings we understand the obscure lessons
of multiplication and patience. By the firsthand account of Hannat Zainsubani,
we know how these lessons were applied towards prisoners of the Sixth House to
create waking dreams. On death, his body calcified. Transported to Vivec, it
remains guarded by Armigers even as I write.

## Dagoth Endus

Lord of Endusal, called “Arithmetical Reflector” and “Bibliosophist”. Died when
sundered from the Sharmat. Appointed entrant of Sotha Sil by the will of the
Sharmat, his sundial cast shadows of tergiversation touched with
anathemathmatics. The most reclusive of his brothers, little else can be gleaned
of Endus beyond his counterclockworks. Examination of his artifacts left the
chief arbiter comatose for half a year. By order of the Bifold, they have been
destroyed.

## Dagoth Gilvoth

Vassal of Dagoth Ur, called “Scorial Claviger”. Slain by the Incarnate. The
destruction of the second Walking Brass makes delving the heart of Red difficult
and we must rely largely on the Nerevarine’s recollections. Bestial in
disposition, Gilvoth was quick tempered and depraved. Holding a collection of
the still beating hearts of his enemies, he bound their spirits to the service
of the Sixth House and presided over all revenants indentured to the Sixth House
as wraith liege. On his death, they were free to tear at his limbs. The hearts
still beat and will be stopped by the will of the Bifold only.

## Dagoth Tureynul

Lord of Tureynulal, called “Hearthrum Drinker”, “Breviloquent Taskmaster”, and
“Gold Skinner’s Curate”. Died when sundered from the Sharmat. Scholar and
academic, Tureynul presided over dwemer athenaeum with only Endus as equal. Well
versed in aurals, recreation of his symphonies by our musicians has melted base
iron and warped solid trickster’s blood. This art is not uniquely his, being a
custom of the Sixth House, but it is clear that his compositions were chief
amongst his peers.

## Dagoth Uthol

Usurper of Kogoruhn, called “Aphotic Contriver” and “Ash Marshal”. Slain by the
Incarnate. Appointed entrant of Almalexia by the will of the Sharmat, Uthol
focused on the martial and understood strategies that chased after Boethiah.
Teacher of venom blooded lessons, he made diamoncut warriors forged for
conquest. Impeccable in conduct and mindful of ceremony, he engaged in single
combat with the Nerevarine with bones made of swords. The Incarnate gave him a
true burial but will not reveal the location to the Temple.

## Dagoth Vemyn

Lord of Vemynal, called “Womb Snake”. Slain by the Incarnate. Despoilment was
his sole intent, with a Coldharbour bold prurience. We do not wish to theorize
to what end his lust was directed or what dark magicks were birthed by his
copulations. Let history never forget his depravity but never acknowledge his
deeds in full.
