---
series: Lorkhan Is a Sea God and a Snake God
part: 1
title: Snake God
reddit: 20i1yo
author: turokman2000
date: 2014-03-15T19:53:26Z
---

TL;DR: Primarily because of clues from Yokudan myth we know Lorkhan is a snake
that eats himself. I propose that this is a cycle of realities, one after
another, but that none of them have actual “time”. Therefore, they all sort of
coexist. Mundus was created when Lorkhan tried to jam together as many of the
timelines into one epic thing as possible. As a result, Auriel – an eagle god –
killed him and tore out his hunger. Part I of my theory is that this event made
the Marukhati Selectives somehow inevitable, and therefore Akatosh is the
jamming together of Auriel and Lorkhan – a winged serpent. Akatosh’s creation
ended the Kalpic cycle, started linear time, resulted in Talos, Alduin’s defeat,
etc. Auri-El and Shor/Shezzar are just avatars of their respective gods.

Lorkhan is literally a giant serpent.

---

Sorry to take something trivial too far, but the Maormer in ESO are depicted
with a prominent Serpent emblem, use serpent posts for magic, have snake pets -
including ginormous snakes - and are worshippers of Lorkhan.

That’s not evidence in itself, but it makes me think. Lorkhan _is_ supposed to
be a snake god, though I’ve never thought of him as a sea god.

But now that I have that context, it changes a lot.

Lorkhan is not well understood. Check out the lore – almost all of it indicates
a great debate between all races that goes to the beginning of time over what
and who exactly Lorkhan is. Tangibly, there is the relic called his heart – but
it’s not literally understood to necessarily be a heart of an anthropomorphic
god – though some understand it to be that way.

I have to say that in presenting this theory I cannot hope to answer the
question of what Lorkhan and by extension mortality’s purpose is.

What we know is that Lorkhan was an advocate for creation, and he was helped
then opposed by the greater spirits of Aetherius, and that the “Daedra” did not
participate.

Also keep in mind that what you think you know about this – you don’t know. The
whole concept of Anu and Padomay are speculative. When discussing Sithis, _The
Monomyth_ says: “…even the Hist acknowledge this.” as in it’s not necessarily a
given known reality. Still, the general understanding is probably largely true.

Read how _The Monomyth_ puts it: “The strongest of the recognizable spirits
crystallize: Mephala, Arkay, Y’ffre, Magnus, Rupgta \[sic\], etc., etc. Others
remain as concepts, ideas, or emotions. One of the strongest of these, a barely
formed urge that the others call Lorkhan, details a plan to create Mundus, the
Mortal Plane.”

I propose that none of these gods “existed” in any tangible sense that we are
familiar with, prior to the binding of Mundus. The spirit world is an infinite
realm of all possibility and no definition. It is like a comma that comes before
a sentence. All of the gods that we’re familiar with crystalized as Mundus took
form. As such, there are common elements to mortality that circumscribe common
definitions of gods. That’s why the monomyth puts it that way.

Keep in mind also that we’ve learned since C0DA, before even, that reality is
undefined. Every person who “plays” an Elder Scrolls game is living a different
reality. And there are realities just as valid, but far more bizarre, which
would be completely unfamiliar to us as well. The gods as we know them are much
more the product of our mortal realm than not. They are funnels, prisms, made of
the stuff of Mundic normalcy through which shines the unbounded light of
Aetherius.

Now the Monomyth goes on to describe the “Aurbis” _as Psijic propaganda_. What I
take this to probably mean is that there is no “realm” of “gray matter” in
between realms of light and dark, but that life itself and its events are the
gray matter. In other words - imagine that all of Aetherius and all of Oblivion
are bound up in every moment and every inch of time and space in Mundus. Can you
imagine it? Now, this means that the physical realms associated with “Oblivion”
or “Aetherius” are really part of the Mundic experience, and wouldn’t/couldn’t
exist without Mundus. The difference is that while 1,000 Munduses can be torn
asunder, Oblivion can watch and laugh. So while the realms of Oblivion _that we
know_ are tied to the phenomenon of Mundus, they are not conditioned on the
state of Mundus itself.

But then, the fact that Mundus has a “state” is part of the problem. It’s highly
irregular, within the universe, for Mundus to have a consistent reality and
timeline. This is apparently what bugs the Altmer so much. And yet, if it
weren’t for that, everything else you _know_ or _see_ would not be that way. So,
it’s all sort of interconnect.

Hence the creation myths are relevant heavy metaphors.

Yet, that doesn’t mean they are inaccurate. They just aren’t as firm or
necessary as imagined.

Anyway, ready to have your mind blown, here’s the Yokudan creation account and
it explains _EVERYTHING_: (from Monomyth)

> Satak was First Serpent, the Snake who came Before, and all the worlds to come
> rested in the glimmer of its scales. But it was so big there was nothing but,
> and thus it was coiled around and around itself, and the worlds to come slid
> across each other but none had room to breathe or even be. And so the worlds
> called to something to save them, to let them out, but of course there was
> nothing outside the First Serpent, so aid had to come from inside it; this was
> Akel, the Hungry Stomach. Akel made itself known, and Satak could only think
> about what it was, and it was the best hunger, so it ate and ate. Soon there
> was enough room to live in the worlds and things began. These things were new
> and they often made mistakes, for there was hardly time to practice being
> things before. So most things ended quickly or were not good or gave up on
> themselves. Some things were about to start, but they were eaten up as Satak
> got to that part of its body. This was a violent time.
>
> Pretty soon Akel caused Satak to bite its own heart and that was the end. The
> hunger, though, refused to stop, even in death, and so the First Serpent shed
> its skin to begin anew. As the old world died, Satakal began, and when things
> realized this pattern so did they realize what their part in it was. They
> began to take names, like Ruptga or Tuwhacca, and they strode about looking
> for their kin. As Satakal ate itself over and over, the strongest spirits
> learned to bypass the cycle by moving at strange angles. They called this
> process the Walkabout, a way of striding between the worldskins. Ruptga was so
> big that he was able to place the stars in the sky so that weaker spirits
> might find their way easier. This practice became so easy for the spirits that
> it became a place, called the Far Shores, a time of waiting until the next
> skin.
>
> Ruptga was able to sire many children through the cycles and so he became
> known as the Tall Papa. He continued to place stars to map out the void for
> others, but after so many cycles there were almost too many spirits to help
> out. He made himself a helper from the detritus of past skins and this was
> Sep, or Second Serpent. Sep had much of the Hungry Stomach still left in him,
> multiple hungers from multiple skins. He was so hungry he could not think
> straight. Sometimes he would just eat the spirits he was supposed to help, but
> Tall Papa would always reach in and take them back out. Finally, tired of
> helping Tall Papa, Sep went and gathered the rest of the old skins and balled
> them up, tricking spirits to help him, promising them this was how you reached
> the new world, by making one out of the old. These spirits loved this way of
> living, as it was easier. No more jumping from place to place. Many spirits
> joined in, believing this was good thinking. Tall Papa just shook his head.

Okay, I won’t overanalyze this and try to pin down all the details. We must
assume there was an original version (probably left-hand elves) which has been
corrupted. But here are some gems:

-The first serpent’s scales represent all possible realities: this is the basis
of the universe.

-The hungry stomach is _probably_ Sithis to the serpent’s Padomay, but the point
is that the stomach is the serpent’s desire to know itself and find meaning from
itself.

-The eating represents the beginning of the Kalpic cycle, where bits and pieces
of IS would bind together with each other and form reality, only to be later
eaten. What’s important to remember is - compared to other myths and “what we
know” - there’s no time yet, so these “kalpas” are as much timelines “before”
our timeline as they are prismatic essences that coexisted with our timeline
back when things were more weird.

-The concept of Walkabout is VERY important. It means that spiritual existence
transcends the Kalpas even though everything is “made” of Kalpas. I can’t
conceive the details here - is it Aetherius, is Tall Papa Auriel, where does
Magnus fit in, etc. The point is, Kalpas are an intrinsic part of the universe,
and yet spiritual being persist because they transcend them.

-Sep, obviously Lorkhan, deciding to create a Mundus **_ENDED_** the Kalpic
cycle. Let me reiterate that ALL of the pieces of reality, or as many _as
possible_ were gathered up to create Mundus. This means past and future
timelines. Up to this point, there’s still no time. Recall that I said that
there aren’t really “before” timelines, that they all sort of coexist. That is,
until they are gathered up and jammed together. But that means nowhere else to
go. No other creations to create, just one vast creation to watch over. The
death of the gods. Sure, they can intervene, sure reality isn’t totally the same
everywhere (dragon breaks, and head canon), but it’s one Nirn, one Tamriel if
you will.

-Finally, Auriel/Ruptga punishes Sep by ripping his “hunger”, his heart out.
This event is not common to the Kalpas, it is unique to the “one” kalpa that is
Mundus.

I want to propose that the event of Lorkhan getting his heart torn out is unique
to the Kalpa. That in other Kalpas there was no “time”, and no Akatosh. That
Mundus is the jamming together of as many “past” (but in reality, “other”)
kalpas as possible.

This means Akatosh is a being unique and essential to Mundus.

I propose that the Marukhati Selectives didn’t so much create Akatosh as the
creation of Mundus, convention, the Adamantine tower, and Lorkhan’s heart
**_compelled_** the selectives to do so.

This was Lorkhan’s coup. And yet, I don’t even think he “meant” it. It was an
byproduct of his hunger.

Lorkhan, the snake, Auriel, the eagle. Both still known by these symbols and yet
Akatosh, the winged serpent is the father of all gods _of Mundus_.

I’m not sure of how it all fits together, but I see the zero stone, the binding
of the dragon, the beginning of time, the dance on the tower, and Lorkhan’s
heart including Numidium’s antics, the blessing of the dragonborn, Talos and so
forth as all one event if you will. All unique and necessary to Mundus and
“this” timeline.

The prototypical man - Shezzar/Shor and mer - Auri-El I see as avatars, aspects
of their greater essences. Anthropomorphic representations of such. As in, if
spiritual will was to be manifest on Nirn, it would take anthropomorphic form
(sometimes as beast men). Man is descended of Shor, mer of Auri-El, who are both
avatars of and “closest things to” the gods they represent _as humanoid forms_

Their “fight” was the _last_ battle which had been preceded by aeons of much
more mythical battles. In fact, the battle may have began as between mythic
beasts and towards the very end these crystalized into humanoid forms.

Akatosh was the victory, and why Auriel peaced out. Lorkhan had jammed all
reality together so hard that even he and Auriel became one.

How and when did this happen. The Marukhati may have danced it, but where in
creation pure Akatosh? That’s the coup!!!!

I’ll explain in part II where I’ll show how Lorkhan is _necessarily_ a sea god.
