---
series: Lorkhan Is a Sea God and a Snake God
part: 2
title: Sea God
reddit: 20ia9j
author: turokman2000
date: 2014-03-15T21:34:27Z
---

TL;DR The sea is a metaphor for Padomay, the sky, Anu. The water surface
boundary is reality, the Aurbis, whatever. Padomay _is_ metaphorically a
serpent, and Lorkhan is a less metaphorical version, hence a sea serpent. Auri-El
created Lorkhan to keep doing what Padomay did in terms of eating up reality and
dying and starting over, but Lorkhan began to keep parts of himself in Aetherius
like the other Aedra and so became Aedra himself. His big final plan involved
stuffing as much creation together so Alduin (a disconnected part of himself)
would burst. This literally would have happened when the creation of Mundus led
_necessarily_ to Akatosh being created as the jamming together of Auri-El and
Lorkhan. When Akatosh showed up at convention, Auri-El freaked and killed Lorkhan
and then left so that Alduin couldn’t eat ALL of EVERYTHING. This created big
problems, hence: Numidium. Also: If a space ship can reach Masser, a submarine
would reach Apocrypha.

If you’ve read part 1, you’ll understand why the cosmos aren’t what we
traditionally think they are.

The “wheel” if you will is something I see as cultural propaganda. The worship
of the Eight and the loathing of the Daedric pantheon is very much an Alessian
doctrine. Though these beings are clearly cosmic and real, and have analogues in
other cultures, the imperial “system” is nothing more than that. Of course, you
can empower a being – even give specific form to it – through worship. However,
that doesn’t make your faith exclusively valid.

Instead, we learn that Aurbis might be Psijic propaganda. That there’s no “gray
matter” in between Aetherial light and the dark of Oblivion. I personally see
Oblivion as part of Mundus – well – part of Mundus that’s not bound to Mundus.

The Yokudan creation myth describes reality forming as the great serpent
(Padomay) being built out of all possibility, begins to eat itself. Its scales
become fewer, and yet better defined. Each time it gets to its heart, it dies
and sheds its entire skin and starts over. When Lorkhan creates Mundus, he takes
as many balls of skin and scales as possible and binds them together. He tries
to get them all.

This makes Oblivion sort of “those parts of reality” that didn’t make it into
Mundus. Why I call it the “detritus of past kalpas”. However, there are
Aetherial spirits and other being who have likely sequestered parts of reality
away as well. Sovngarde is a great example. At the same time, the spirits who
escaped Mundus such as Magnus – but even later Auri-El – have “somewhere” to go.
So the jamming together of all realities was not complete. But we assume it was
nearly complete, because the implication is that there’s not enough “stuff”
around to go on creating.

Imagine the universe is Play-Doh, and the spirits of Aetherius play with it and
this makes them gods. Of course, definition isn’t something that exists in pure
Aetherius. Rather, whenever there’s shape, there’s a shaper. The shaper doesn’t
exist, but you know they’re there because of the shapes that get made. A god of
mortal cycles, a god of nature and beasts and life, a god of connections and
love, a god of ingenuity and invention and new ideas, etc. These shapers begin
to realize they exist, particular once they can see themselves between and
across the realities they take part of.

The Yokudan myth calls this “Walkabout”. It means that the spirits don’t come
from Aetherius, they come from realities. From the creation process – it defines
them. By walking among and between realities, they become “Aetherial” beings.

I only mean to emphasize that there isn’t a strict cosmos like what you see with
the wheel.

In all things there is form and unform. There is IS and IS NOT. The synthesis of
opposites _is_ what everything _is_. The earth is the synthesis of water and
air. It is above water, it is below air. A sword is the steel it’s made of, it
is not the air that surrounds it. Being steel gives it substance, not being the
air around it gives it form. Anu and Padomay is in all things.

The original cosmos, before creation, would have taken the form of an infinite
expanse – air, bounded by an infinite boundary – water.

Imagine a vast sea and starless sky. Now imagine the sea surface extends
infinitely until it wraps in on itself and surrounds the air. The water is not a
vast world like the air. Air represents infinite ability to move, to go,
anywhere, unbounded, no barriers. Water surrounds you completely, utterly,
completely bounded, barriers of infinitely small size on all sides covering all
nooks and corners.

There is no “space” between to entities submerged in this water. They are both
bounded, and far or not far from the surface that would liberate them back into
air.

To descend infinitely away from the air, out into nothing, is infinite death, to
never be able to be anything else ever again. To be formed and bound forever.

The cosmos are confusing. Why would Auri-El want change in the universe, and
Lorkhan a single mortality. Is not Lorkhan the agent of change, and Auri-El of
stasis?

Part of this confusion is due to misconception. Lorkhan loves stasis, he eats
it, but his hunger is so strong he always eats himself and dies. His left over
bits and pieces remain and he is born again and continues eating. He is change,
but seeks stasis.

Auri-El loves change. Auri-El is the product of each new and different reality. He
exists because he can walk between realities and thereby transcend them. He
exists because he wishes to remain himself as the universe changes. He is the
constant, the All-Maker, but he seeks an ever-changing universe. He is stasis,
he seeks change.

This duality is not mind blowing, but it’s important to grasp.

Thus, the basic form of the cosmos is sea and air. The “water” surface is the
boundary. In that infinitely thin boundary, you find reality.

To put it better, the surface is nothing more – substance-wise – than diverse
reflections of Aetherial light. That is, in some spots light escapes forever, in
others it reflects back.

Lorkhan is death, he is the leviathan that rises out of the sea to eat what is
upon it. And yet he always eats so much that he eats himself entirely and his
skin is rearranged by the beings of the air, only to be eaten again by the
serpent. Think of a million floating nests.

Padomay is the primordial serpent, but only so much as to barely fulfill the
metaphor. Only after countless cycles is Lorkhan basically created by Auri-El out
of the skin of Padomay (given its heart – Sithis) to continue to fulfill that
role. Lorkhan then would probably take the form more often than not of the
literal giant sea serpent.

Magnus would be a spirit that realizes the scam of it all – that none of it has
real substance and is just an interplay of two purities – and “escapes” to
Aetherius – the light that reflects back perhaps.

At the bottom of the depths is Hermaeus-Mora, the bits and piece of Padomay that
fall out of the reach of the creators. The little balls of scales and skin that
are never reuse, but congeal and coalesce in the depths. More than any other
being this one knows all that is tangible will end, and end up at the bottom
with him. Thus, nothing tangible can satiate him. Only knowledge, the echo of
the tangible, will. Presumably, some portion of Sithis” hunger remained with
Herma-Mora.

The planets represent parts of the pieces of reality and kalpas that the gods
intended to use in Nirn before Lorkhan tricked them. Like nests on a high, safe
perch.

And so that’s why Lorkhan’s a sea god.

Now, think of Lorkhan as the front end of the serpent’s mouth, and Alduin as the
back end of that same mouth. The eyes of the serpent lust and hunger for more
more more. The throat of the serpent only tastes the bile of an overfull
stomach. Thus the two aren’t inherent enemies, but become enemies superficially.

The first fight of the Aldudagga mentions that greedy man is “in and out of
kalpas”. I take this to mean that Lorkhan – created by Auri-El to continue the
cycle of change so that he (Auri-El) can continue to play his little game of
creation (he adores stasis, but cannot persist within it) – is meant to follow
the plan, Auri-El’s plan, but goes haywire. Part of Lorkhan, inspired by his
hunger, creates a part of himself that transcends kalpas – just like the rest of
the Aedra. This makes him one of the Aedra as well, and it gives him a
transkalpic plan.

The culmination of that plan is when Lorkhan gathers so much reality into one
place – Mundus – that Auri-El’s hand is forced and he has to kill Lorkhan. That’s
why it happened, this time. Because his hand was forced by Lorkhan’s greed.

Mundus is too much reality balled up together. Alduin cannot eat it. This is
meant metaphorically to mean that too much of reality is revealed to itself,
that it will result in permanent stasis – or permanent change – bad for
everyone. So though Alduin and Lorkhan are adversarial, they share the same
heart – which Auri-El rips out of Shor’s ribs I guess at some point in the
binding of reality.

This, then, must be considered seminal. It is said, by one account, that time
begins when Magnus departed Mundus. However, time is understood to be the
binding of Akatosh. What are we to make of this?

I am assuming it’s all related, and the inability of Alduin to eat himself is
the problem that cause Auri-El to act differently, this difference being the
death of Lorkhan.

I propose that Magnus could not have coexisted with Akatosh. Akatosh’s presence
drove Magnus away like a magnet with an opposing pole. That is, Magnus’s
departure wasn’t causal, it was an effect. Auri-El on the other hand, could stay,
but he didn’t stay very long – though I propose he coexisted with Akatosh for a
brief while, knowing he couldn’t really stay and co-preside with Akatosh. If we
knew more of the Falmer, we might now more about this.

I think that Lorkhan’s greed created Akatosh. That the bringing together of so
much reality meant that it was inevitable for the two aspect to merge. This
meant the dreaded end of kalpas that Auri-El feared. If Alduin were to eat Auri-El
and Lorkhan, it would mean sundering of change/stasis, the ripping of the
boundary.

The universe began when the two separated out from a whole. The universe would
end as the separation became final.

It went like this: the Aedra looked upon Mundus from atop Direnni Tower.

```verse
“Nice laws of physics Magnus,” said Kynareth.
“I like your “goats”,” said Magnus.
“See, it wasn’t so bad,” said Lorkhan.
“We’ll see,” said Auri-El.
There was a pause.
“Regardless, good job everyone!” said Akatosh.
```

“Oh F\*\*K,” said Auri-El, who then ripped Lorkhan’s heart out and sent it to the
far end of the world. Magnus immediately peaced out.

Auri-El took care of some things, then looked at Akatosh and said, “Well, you got
this bro.”

The end.

The idea is that Lorkhan as the missing god. Auri-El “lets” Akatosh take over so
that they don’t both get eaten by Alduin, and so Akatosh gets mixed in with real
memories of Auri-El. Lorkhan is just dead. So, people know about him, but he’s
not a god of Nirn. Akatosh fills the roles of both Auri-El and Lorkhan. That’s
why Lorkhan’s missing. Auri-El is “gone” but he was here, and he deliberately
passed the reins to Akatosh. Lorkhan is just not there, in the pantheon.

Alduin still exists, but as an aspect of Akatosh not of Lorkhan. Likewise, LDB
is an aspect of Akatosh’s greedy man nature, but Akatosh isn’t pure Lorkhan.

One imagines Lorkhan knew this would happen, who knows what his plan is. In one
sense, Numidium is a natural consequence of things getting so screwed up. These
are all things to consider another day.

Conclusion is that Lorkhan is a sea serpent. The sea and its depths are the void
metaphor. Presumably, since pieces of past kalpas combine for Mundus (the Dreugh
are here), old Lorkhan is remembered by sea folk. Moreover, none this process is
necessarily exclusionary.

I like to think that the physical depths of Nirn’s sea become an anti-sky and
start to transcend Mundus and physically connect to the deeper parts of
Oblivion. If a space ship can reach Masser, a submarine would reach Apocrypha.

That’s why sea creatures can sort of transcend Kalpas just like Aedra. They hide
in the depths and watch their lord Lorkhan eat everything on the surface. They
remember the leviathan serpent Lorkhan better than other denizens of Mundus who
only really remember anthropomorphic Shor.

Oh, by the way, there _was_ a Shor/Shezzar. There _was_ an Auri-El. There
_was/is_ an Akatosh who _was/is_ both 100% Auri-El and 100% Shor. Make sense?
