---
title: "A Meditation on Royalty: Sigma(0)/0"
reddit: 20w2pl
author: sheably
date: 2014-03-20T09:40:06Z
---

Hello, allow me to introduce myself, I am. I once was known as Pyrhos, I was old
when I came into existence and I recount to you the story of my birth that you
may use it as a raft, as I have used the stories of others to reach these
distant shores.

I walked many roads, but the first of note was the moth-path. I looked at the
music of the spheres and was blinded by its madness, its incoherence. It was not
a blindness of the eye, but a blindness of the mind. I see now that had I
accepted my non-existence I would have perfectly perceived the notions encoded
in those simple scrolls, but, at the time, my last visions of light led me to
the heart, the red one and my own. How I reached it, I cannot say, perhaps
because it is a secret I must keep, or perhaps because I do not know, perchance
is the tree in me. The hearts whispered to me of Royalty, of the chance to join
the jewels of The Crown.

I desired nothing more, in my blindness, to become such a jewel, so I sought
Vivec, one such jewel himself. Though I never met the thing I read its sermons,
its sermons of hate called Love, of imperiled futures and things set to come.
Sheogorath spoke to me the 37th day of my meditation on levitation. I see now
that had I accepted Vivec’s Love I would have been close but I would not have
_been_.

So, with the cacophony of change in my ears, deafening me with its madness, its
incoherence, I made my way, prostrate, to the Hist, who thought to me the
feelings of Will. They thought me to be my Will, that this will to power is all
to being, that my hearts are true and we must be free. Within three Secunds of
my meditation on rivers Auriel spoke to me. I see now that had I accepted my
heart’s will I would be being, but I would not _be_.

So, with the numbness of thought I made my way as a Nix-Hound to the Psijiic
monks. Here I tasted the fruits of good change and they were sweet, but, left
untended, would grow too much and drip with over-ripe scents. After the 42nd
hour of my meditation on Growth Talos spoke to me. I see now that had I accepted
the Psijiic’s endeavor I would still be, but not _be_.

So, with the myriad of scent of power overwhelming my senses I became
fundamental. To me, there was nothing, after so many parleys even Magnus ceased
to speak to me. There was a lack of anything but myself and my desires, and so I
sat until I found truth. At last, on the 49th day of my meditation on truth, I
found nothing.

“Nothing really exists, but all is governed by convention.” And so it was that I
ceased to be. Yet one more visitor came to me that night, this time Mara spoke
to me, but it was too late for her, the world had ended, I was already her, and
I was her daughters and I was Talos, and Auriel, and Anu and Padomay. At last, I
was. With Mundus as my witness we rejected Mara’s temptations and so was I. “I”
is now only a convenience, for now I am the spheres conducting the music, no
longer the tambourine pining to play bass-drum, but a figment of the maestro,
and of every string and mallet and brass and reed in the band.

I was tempted by others on my 49th day, told I must retain the I, that losing
myself would mean being lost, but this we’s convention has changed, I have done
the impossible and divided the sums of zero by itself, and, in doing so, I am.
