---
series: Imperial Hegemony
part:
title: Economy
reddit: 20x36j
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-03-20T17:22:16Z
about: |
  I’ve been playing with this idea for a while, but I have finally been able to write it down. I figured it would be best in the form of three posts, each dealing with a different asset of the Imperial might.
---

---

Up untill the dramatic collapse of the Imperial hegemony in the late third and
early fourth era, Cyrodiil, and with that the Imperial culture, had been
dominant throughout the provinces of the Empire. Some of the more important
aspects of this spread of culture, ideals, and religion were the economy of
Cyrodiil, the ideals and philosophy in the Empire, and the form of their
pantheon and religion.

## ECONOMY

The hegemony in world trade was only achieved relatively late by Cyrodiil. While
Cyrodiil was an important political player in the first and second era due to
its centred position on Tamriel, and the resolve and tenaciousness of its
inhabitants, their economical power was surprisingly weak. Indeed, most of the
wealth of the Second Empire was produced by Imperials, but not in Cyrodiil.

This was due to the limited amount of goods the Imperials were able to export.
Before the rise of Tiber Septim, the Imperial economy was mostly based on the
export of Ancestor Moth Silk and various types of spirits, due to the tropical
climate making widespread agriculture impossible. The spirits gave just a small
marginal profit, due to the scarceness of the necessary products, but due to the
size of the export, and the renown of such spirits as Cyrodiilic brandy and
Shadowbanish wine, it is notable nonetheless.

The backbone of Imperial export at the time was, as stated earlier, based on the
silk produced by the Ancestor Moth. This type of silk shows a surprising amount
of strength, while still flexible and soft enough (when treated properly) to
offer comfort to the wearer. Along with the excellent quality and properties of
the silk, the massive scale of production in Nibenay made the silk affordable
not only to the highest of nobility, but also to the richer traders and lower
lords. An important note here, is that the silk production was mostly restricted
to Nibenay, and Colovia was left out of the loop, which partially caused the
difference in culture of the two regions. It also explains the relative peace
and richness of the area around the Niben, as opposed to the many wars and
skirmishes for scrapes of fertile land in Colovia.

The economy of Cyrodiil was boosted at the start of the Second Empire, due to
its ties with the lands of Akavir, causing a strong influx in luxury goods.
Apart from the products already exported by the Imperials, the people of
Cyrodiil were also able to import various spices and new products from Akavir,
and selling them to the rest of the continent. With Colovia and Nibenay united,
the former now profited from the new trade economy as well. Furthermore, the
Cyrodiilic smiths learned from their Akaviri colleagues, crafting new equipment.
While these crafting techniques had lost their popularity in the Third Empire,
they were still employed by the Blades, and, at the time of the Reman emperors,
were a good source of income. It should be noted, though, that it was not purely
an Imperial business. the Dunmer had also learned from the Akaviri invaders, but
favoured their own crafts mostly, gicing more room to the Cyrodiilic smiths.
Secondly, Cyrodiil had never been very rich in resources, and most of those had
to be imported from the corners of the Empire, most notably Skyrim and High
Rock, further trimming down the profits.

The major shock in the Cyrodiilic economy came with Tiber Septim, who, in honour
of his red legions, changed Cyrodiil’s climate to a more temperate one. This
made sizeable agriculture more viable, and made Cyrodiil one of the biggest
exporters of basic food items, including grain and meat. With both a luxuries
trade and a basic trade, the Imperial province was able to quickly grow its
economic power. An important factor in the quick rise of the Imperial economical
hegemony was the rather protective stance the Empire took for the Imperial
trade, as the Empire was still the Empire of Cyrodiil above the Empire of
Tamriel. With the agricultural trade secured, the Third Empire set its sights on
different fronts. The port cities of Anvil and Leyawiin quickly grew in size.
While Anvil mostly focussed on the trade with the Western Provinces and the
remains of Yokuda, and was a port city in its own right, the ports of Leyawiin
and the Imperial City worked closely together, due to their position at various
lengths of the Niben. The trade on the Niben was also important as it was the
heart of the East Empire Company, that had a strong monopoly on any trade
surrounding Morrowind and Skyrim.

With the inclusion of Morrowind into the Empire, the long isolationist Dunmer
were forced to open their borders to Imperial traders. Due to their past
seclusion from Tamriel-wide trade, the Imperials found a land with almost
endless possibility. This quickly led to the establishment of the East Empire
Company, which held a monopoly on any trade from Morrowind, which is a rich
source of not only primary goods as Ebony and Glass, but was also renowned for
its richness in Dwemer artefacts (wanted by many a collector and scholar, and
praised for their everlasting quality) and local products, such as Shin, Salt
rice, and Kwama eggs, as well as luxury goods as the famous Telvanni bug musk
perfume.

The hegemony in trade collapsed with the Empire as a whole. With the secession
of many provinces, in some cases taken over by the Aldmeri Dominion, and the
destruction of parts of Morrowind, and the disbandment of its infrastructure,
the Imperials were unable to keep their monopolies, losing one of their main
sources of income. The final blow was delivered with the Great War, which saw
much of the Cyrodiilic farmland destroyed (especially in Colovia, which entered
another time of poverty), caused Cyrodiil to lose its position as the grain shed
of Tamriel.

The Imperial economy was quick to rise due to its peoples focus on trade. With
the luxury trade safe, and their climate changed, the Imperials could create the
biggest trade imperium in the history of Tamriel. This changed with the final
collapse of the Empire, causing the economical hegemony in the balance.
