---
title: Two Voices Discuss The Voice
reddit: 211sq3
author: Asotil
date: 2014-03-22T02:41:30Z
---

> This correspondence was found in the ruins of the College of the Voice,
> destroyed along with many other buildings during the Forsworn occupation.
>
> It would seem that the politics that still trouble many Imperial institutions
> today were also a problem at the College. One cannot help but wonder: what if
> the College had accepted this particular instructor’s work? Would the arts of
> the Voice be known to all today?
>
> As it stands it seems unlikely, and much of what can be determined is solely
> conjecture.
>
> _Dervyn Releth, Scholar of Winterhold_{:tag="cite"}

{:tag="about" .foreword}

Hnaf Red-Eye, Archon of Tongues,

I have attempted twice now to publish my extensively researched dissertation on
the Greybeards. However, each time you have vetoed the publication of my
material. Your sole response, sent after the failure of my second attempt, was
simply “controversy”.

I believe that my dissertation will prove immensely valuable for providing a
viable argument against the long-held beliefs the Way of the Voice espouses. Our
mission is to promote general usage of the Thu’um from a secular perspective,
which conflicts inherently with the philosophy of True Need. Having a paper from
an institution as esteemed as this one would prove to eliminate all
superstitious nonsense from what is clearly a very potent art.

Sincerely,

Instructor Claudius

---

Instructor Claudius,

The College of the Voice appreciates your efforts, and I personally commend your
swift rise during your relatively brief time here. However, I must step in as
primary official to stop the publishing and distribution of this particular
essay.

You are a gifted scholar, but you are also barely out of boyhood, and as such do
not comprehend the nuances of the real world’s politics. That your essay is
well-written is not a point of contention. It is. However, we intentionally
prevent your work from being published for wholly different reasons.

The crux of the matter is that the Greybeards hold a special place in Nordic
culture, something I would not expect a Cyrod to understand. Insulting them
would only put us under fire from the general populace, and would severely scar
our reputation.

Hnaf Red-Eye, Archon of Tongues

---

Hnaf Red-Eye, Archon of Tongues,

And since when did we allow general opinion to dictate our statements?

I’ll ignore the hint of condescension in your general tone to address your
argument. I am aware of the role the Greybeards play in Nordic culture, which is
precisely what I wish to address.

For too long we have been considered inferior to them, simply because they are
more exclusive and attach a sense of religiosity to the art of the Voice. This
is ridiculous.

Moreover, nothing in the official policies speaks against my actions. In fact,
the Greybeards are not mentioned at all in any official text concerning our
conduct or the nature of our publication material.

Therefore, I submit that your actions taken against me are unsupported by your
legitimate authority.

All due respect,

Instructor Claudius

---

Instructor Claudius,

It would certainly help you to learn a little respect, would it not? I would
hate to see the career of such an enterprising and skilled young man go to waste
after an untimely discharge. Perhaps you forget at times that you are writing to
the highest official in the College.

Perhaps more severe reminders would be appropriate in the future.

You are a young man, and your naiveté is only to be expected. Perhaps you have
heard of unwritten rules and unspoken policies? Our agreement (inasmuch as
mutual silence is an agreement) with the Greybeards is one such unspoken policy.

As an instructor, your work is invaluable, but you fail to comprehend the
consequences of your actions. Imagine what the other Nords would say if they
read your libellous statements regarding the most revered Tongues in Skyrim,
especially from an “upstart” institution such as ours! Do you not forget how
highly the Northmen value tradition?

By all means, feel free to publish your work under your own name. Just do not
expect our university to support it as official material.

Hnaf Red-Eye, Archon of Tongues
