---
title: Akavir Is Full of Beast People Because of “Evolution”
reddit: 2142f6
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2014-03-23T00:08:46Z
---

> Remember that Akavir exists in the future. Add your beast ideas to that notion
> and see what comes back.
>
> _MK_{:tag="cite"}

Anyone who has been around long enough knows about the Amaranth, and the Cycle
of Dreams it implies. Original Dreamer→Anu→Jubal(?).

I contend that Yokuda was the dream Anu came from, Tamriel is the dream Jubal
came from, and now Akavir is as far as we know.

It has been suggested by someone that the Dreams are getting more complex. I
can’t find this someone’s quote, so if it is you I apologize for not crediting
you.

There may be a grain of truth to this. Yokuda was basically Men vs. Elves, with
one Tower. Then Tamriel came along and Anu dreamt of all sorts of Elves and all
kinds of Men. The Redguards also managed to make the journey from the past dream
to the new one. Another major addition to the Dream is the Beast Folk like the
Khajiit.

Each dream takes the previous elements and expands on them. Where Tamriel
expanded on Men and Elves, Akavir expands primarily on the Beast Folk. Thus
there is a sort of evolution to the dreams, but that’s just on a meta level.

I believe [Maering-Bear-Poker’s theory][0] is partially correct. MK told us that
the nations of Akavir are kind-of-sort of like Otherkin, which is a strange
theme to me.

This obviously isn’t totally satisfactory though. I’m sure many of us prefer the
idea of literal snake people.

OCVLAR came up with this idea, which I also like.

> What about the people of Akavir being humanoid (man/mer) who can take on the
> “aspect” of animals by following a certain discipline/movement of martial
> arts? It’s not like werewolves, vampires, and Khajiits who were transformed
> via Daedric Princes. It would be something like the Voice which would take
> years of training and some natural talent.

This fits with what we know about tonal magic, particularly related to that of
the Akaviri’s kiai.

> The power of a Nord can be articulated into a shout, like the kiai of an
> Akaviri swordsman.
>
> _The Children of the Sky_{:tag="cite"}

It also would provide an explanation for the strange weather patterns reported
during the Disaster at Ionath. If the Kiai is anything like the Thu’um, then it
should have been capable of weather control.

Knowing this, I would like to propose a marriage of sorts between Maering and
OCVLAR’s philosophies.

The Nations of Akavir are split between their animal motifs because those
animals represent their ideals and how one can proceed to learn magical martial
arts.

Martial Arts are a form of physical activity with philosophy behind it. The
philosophies you follow shape how you think, but these do even more than that.
They change both your body and your mind as you grow more advanced in them.

I’ll use the Tsaesci as an example. Judging from The Disaster at Ionath, the
Tsaesci basically fight like ninjas. The whittle their enemies down, and then
strike when they’re most vulnerable. They fight like a snake.

This is because every Tsaesci buys into a Snake Style Martial Arts. They start
to think like snakes to get better, and as a result they become more and more
snakelike. Eventually they start growing snake like features- scales instead of
skin, fangs instead of teeth, and eventually their legs merge and become like a
snake’s body. It’s like Mythopoea, except on a smaller scale.

This also explains the numerous comments on “eating” things. “Eating” is
“adapting”, or maybe “assimilating”. Ninjas do this when they disguise
themselves. They’re still ninjas, but they’re disguised as something else. They
“ate” their disguise and “became” it.

For example: A Ninja “eats” a Gardener by stealing his clothes and takes his
job. Then he “becomes” the Gardener by taking his place. He’s still a Ninja, but
he is wearing the “skin” of a gardener.

This is what happened to the Men of Akavir. Originally, there _were_ Men in
Akavir, but the Tsaesci assimilated them and through their teachings the Men of
Akavir became the Tsaesci. It was a new paradigm.

The Tsaesci tried to continue their conquest to include dragons, but they hit a
wall when the Black Dragons fled to the Po Tun. It is said that the Red Dragons
were “enslaved” by the Tsaesci, so presumably they couldn’t be taught the Snake
Style.

We know the rest. The Tsaesci fought a devastating war with the Po Tun, which
ended with the death of the dragons.

The Martial Arts the Tsaesci use must be very powerful, because they managed to
dominate the continent for some time. Their victory over the Imperial Expedition
Force may give some taste of this.

Their dominance was finally broken when Tosh Raka finally figured out a Dragon
Martial Arts, and perfected it so that he became an actual Dragon.

> Tosh Raka is the first to succeed. He is the largest Dragon in the world,
> orange and black, and he has very many new ideas.
>
> “First,” Tosh Raka says, “is that we kill all the vampire snakes.” Then the
> Tiger-Dragon Emperor wants to invade Tamriel.

He has “many new ideas”, meaning that he invented Dragon Martial Arts. This is
evident by the fact that he clearly thinks like a Dragon- He wants to dominate
Akavir first, and then conquer Tamriel.

This is my concept of Akavir. It is a land of martial artists who are slowly
becoming their philosophies, with their bodies reflecting the change.

[0]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/20n0ab/the_nations_of_akavir_a_thought/
