---
title: Meditations On Akavir
reddit: 216ag0
author: turokman2000
date: 2014-03-23T20:48:55Z
---

O Cyrod, what you might see, if you could hear!

The shores of Akavir are untamed, wild like all the imagination of the West. The
forests are thick and wet, and full of beasts. There are no trails, no outposts,
at first the only sign a shipwrecked crew would have to give away the shores of
their ill-fate is a single ruin: the death of the dragon.

That’s what it is called by all of Akavir.

There is no civilization by the death of the dragon. There are no visitors. Our
crew arrived there because it was all one could find other than land, sky, or
sea. The statue itself was plain: a Tsaesci blade master plunging a sword
downward into the heart of a defeated dragon. Later I learned that this was once
a large settlement, full of warriors, smiths, cooks, and builders. There were
ring roads, like half-moons, circling the center, buttressed agains the coast.
It was a military camp, and its radius was many miles. At the center, standing
before the many docks and thousands masts and sails, was the Marshall’s tower.
At the top of the tower was the statue. A thousand dragons dead, and more to be
killed to the West.

But the crew of Eastern Jewel Rat arrived and it was all sunken or rot. Only the
statue, massive as it was, was left.

My crew never survived the wilds. My memory of them is neither fond nor ill. I
joined the Eastern trading channel because of war at home. The Arena they called
it. I heard about Jagar Tharn and the simulacrum while at port in Telvanni
waters. For once, the people were hopeful. I even recall hearing the name of
Tiber Septim in the Eastern lands a time or two. I had a second floor flat in
Leyawiin, there was a young Argonian maid. But… ah! A storm took us. That truly
is a story worthy of Imperial Halfseptim novels. Suffice it to say that after a
few weeks, having faced the maelstrom and having beat it, the crew beached a few
skiffs on a foreign shore.

It took us another few months, 3 out of ten dead, until we reached the statue.
We stayed there for a year, having nowhere else to go. There were expeditions
inland, more died, but eventually we learned how to survive off the wilds. Soon,
we didn’t venture inland any more. We began to despair, trapped in a dangerous
land, an unknowable land.

That is until the storms, massive storms. More than just rain and thunder, the
land itself shook. The earth bled. It was as if all the universe was dying the
most painful death. We prayed to Talos, we knew this must be the Dragon Land,
and we prayed to return to Tamriel.

In the middle of the night the winds calmed, the rain fell softer like remnant
tears. As I was to say a prayer to Talos, my will left me. I could hear the
earth sobbing. It was a cry of relief, of joy. No, I would not need Talos. The
sense of joy, of newness coming from the wild nature outside my shelter was so
perfect and pure I would thank Akatosh himself. Yet, that was not enough, the
joy was greater and bigger. It was not my circumstances for which I was
thankful. It was the hope in my heart. We would venture inland again, further
and farther than ever. There had to be more to this place. I would find it. It
was a hunger, an anti-hunger really. I longed for what lay in store, but in my
longing I felt fulfilled. I drifted to sleep.

When I woke, the crew was gone. I had no idea where they were, but all signs of
them: fires, tents, shelter, it was all gone. The statue remained, but it seemed
like the storm had washed away part of the tower underneath. At the time I had
no idea that there was more to the statue. I figured my poor crew had been
washed to sea. As I left, I took what I sensed would be my last look at the
statue. Somehow, it looked less worn than it had.

I walked only a few hundred yards and found a chest half submerged in the earth.
We had searched and dug and never found a thing, but here was a sign of
civilization in plain sight. I opened it and found an armor and sword. They were
Akaviri, just like the Emperor’s guards. I had fewer doubts about where I was
than ever. I donned the armor and took the sword and travelled inland.

After only four days, and an encounter with Bubble Beast - as we called them -
female I think, less aggressive, I found a grouping of hills we’d never
encountered. They were small hills, covered in greens, with steep narrow canyons
snaking through them. It was almost one large formation cut across by rivers and
creeks. I found nothing of use there, except that the highest point peeked above
the tree canopy. I climbed up top to survey the land.

When I reached the top of the rise what I saw amazed me. The forest was more
vast than I had ever imagined, and beyond it was a mountain range to match the
Jerallii. Halfway to the base of the mountain was something which caused me
dread! Dragon smoke! Coming from the forest, moving at a furious pace, was a
plume of the darkest smoke rising up to fill the sky.

I hid immediately in a cave. For days I’d wait, see the smoke, then hide again.
There was a regularity to the smoke. It was strange and unlike what I have heard
of dragons. But I had never seen one, so I dared not venture from my place of
safety. Until a dragon found me.

I was up top, watching as always, and out of nowhere the serpent eyes rose to
met mine. A green, grinning, bold face. Its head was twice the size of my body,
and was attached to a lanky but muscular neck snaking into one of the canyons. I
ran. A foot blocked my way. I ran the other way, a wing stopped me. I turned to
face the beast and drew my sword. It laughed.

It rose out of its crevice and I saw that its body snaked all the way round the
hill, in and out of valleys. It was a serpent of immeasurable length, with four
feet and six wings, and one grinning face. We spoke, it told me not to fear. It
said that this was its hill, but it had stayed away for days in order to observe
me. It wanted its home back. It said I should go seek the smoke plume, I would
find my kind there, and no dragons. Its laugh echoed as I ventured back into the
forest.

When I arrived at the place of the smoke, weeks later, I found nothing but a
clearing - one that stretched in each direction. I waited there until the sun
reached that point when I knew the smoke would appear. What I eventually
discovered was nothing like what I expected.

It was a mechanical device that produced the smoke! Black rocks were heated by a
fire magic, which made steam that pushed rods to turn wheels. The device would
cruise down metal tracks and cover great distances. It carried peoples and wares
of a like I’ve never imagined. On this conveyance I met my mentor and teacher
for the first time. The whole compartment full of people chuckled when the
conveyance’s master gestured for me to enter there. A man eventually gestured
that I sit by him. He smiled at me, then grappled my neck. I resisted, and he
firmly tapped my neck, an arm, he put pressure on my chest. I couldn’t move. He
then put a finger on my forehead, and pressed hard. He whispered, the whispers
grew louder, and finally I heard him speak to me. He told me to be calm, that it
was only a spell of hearing so that we could speak. He tapped my neck on the
side and my body was no longer paralyzed. For hours we spoke.

I told him of the shipping corridor, the Morrowind coast. He politely listened,
clearly unaware of any of these places. I mentioned the coasts of Black Marsh,
the scent of the Hist spore. He chuckled. Aka-Tosha? He asked. I told him, yes,
Akatosh, first of all divines. He chuckled again, and told me that he knew of
where I was from. I asked excitedly if he knew of a port where I might get a
ship to return. He chuckled again, shaking his head.

I learned that my armor represented an old fashion, one that people remembered
but no longer favored. I looked like I belonged in a theatre show they would
say. He said he had a garment in his baggage that would suit fashion sense
better. I refused to give up my armor, telling him of the danger of the wilds.
He chuckled again, the wilds were no danger to the trains guards and that when
we arrived at the city we’d be far from such dangers. I took his word for it,
the armor was rusting and I my back ached from wearing it all these weeks.

And we spoke of the wilds, of dragons, of Tamriel especially for hours. It was
night when we arrived in town. I was guided to an inn, and slept in what was
unnatural comfort for me at the time.

When I awoke, it was to further amazement. The city wasn’t large, but had
wonders that rivaled the Imperial seat. Fashions were extravagant and smart.
Merchants sold all manner of devices and mechanics. Fruits were exotic and
bizarre. The prince’s palace in the Eastern district was made of glass. I
thought these people might have elves’ magic, but the glass was held in place
with massive quantities for shaped iron. Part of the palace was being renovated,
and I saw wise men take iron rods, cranes, and glass. They whispered to the
glass, then hit it, in order to cause the glass to meet the shape of the iron.

My sponsor, after showing me the city’s wonders, asked what I planned to do. I
said go home to Leyawiin. He said I could not, and asked if I would mind
traveling with him. He saw my amazement at the whispering engineers, and asked
if I would like to learn the voice. I had little other option but to accept.

We left town on a dirt trail. I asked why not travel by the mechanical
conveyance? He said it did not go where we were going. And so we took to trail.

One night, storms gathered. My fear grew and grew, and at the crack of a thunder
I shook. The man looked at me and told me not to fear. He said to hear the voice
of Tosh Raka in the thunder, and it would calm my fear. For an hour I trembled
and listened and heard nothing. I said I could not do it. He smiled and said
that he knew I could because I had before, and Tosh Raka whispered that I would
again. I thought on this, not knowing of this Tosh Raka, but I imagined I
someday might. At this moment, hope again filled my heart. The storm calmed.

In the morning, the forest was no longer there. It was all ash. My sponsor saw
new fear in my eyes, and again said not to worry. This was the ashland, and
there were no ’red mountains’ to erupt. I didn’t understand, but our journey
continued. I saw many more strange things. Every so often another storm would
pass. Over time, they became less severe. I began to hear voices in the thunder.
I couldn’t understand them.

One day, our journey ended. We arrived at a gated village at the top of a
mountain in a misty range. My sponsor said this was his home. It was a humble
village, but orderly and beautiful. Everything centered around a square with
rows of seats for spectators and a bare floor in the middle. In the back of the
village was gate which led into a cave with some sort of religious significance.

I met the man’s family, and indeed this man was a village elder. The next day he
introduced me to the village on the village floor. He explained that I came from
the land of twilight’s dreams, that I had drank from the waters of Akatosh, but
had heard the voice of Tosh Raka.

I had thought the curiosity over a genuine Tamrielic had been the reason for my
welcome, but later I learned that I had a connection to this land that was rare
even for those born there. My sponsor had brought me to learn the way of the
voice. The voice of Tosh Raka.

The day after I arrived there was a duel in the town square. A distant warlord
had been proclaiming that blue was the most subtle of colors. None had accepted
this, so he sent fighters to argue it to the villages. Was this a debate? No,
there was to be a fight. I did not understand.

The king’s man and a village warrior began to fight in a way that was more of a
dance than a contest. It was hypnotic. After some time, I thought it was two
snakes I saw fighting. My sponsor whispered into my ear: listen. He spoke as if
to my soul, and suddenly I heard. The warriors were no longer entangled
serpents, but I heard the voice of the earth calling back and forth. In a moment
there was another voice, the voice from the thunder. Tosh Raka. At that moment,
the illusion dissipated. The king’s man was a corpse. The village warrior bowed,
knelt, than whispered to the corpse. A thousand moths sprung from the man’s
body, and his body was no more. After they fled, he looked at me.

Over time I learned to fight in the way of the voice. I met many dragons. I
almost fell victim to a soul parasite in my ear. I visited many lands. I even
learned the fate of many Elder Scrolls. In the end, I met a God.

In case my brethren meet this land as I have, for the sake of the old times, I
write the whispers in a form the people of Tamriel might understand.

The whispers are what the those training in the way of the voice hear during
their training. It is a hit to the ribs, a touch to the head, and a whisper to
the souls. Not to the soul present, but back to the soul young. The rebuilding
of a man from his beginning.

I record these whispers, for Tamriel. I write these meditations, so that you
would know of the whispers.
