---
title: Vade Mecum Oblivisci
subtitle: A Dremora’s Pocket Guide To Oblivion
reddit: 218hzn
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-03-24T15:26:27Z
pseudonym: Kynval Vvidentiekz of Clan Shadoweater
---

## Foreword

I have existed for as long as you weak mortals have walked the grounds of Nirn.
I have learned much and have seen much. But there is something that I have seen
that makes me want to murder every single man, mer, or beast that I see without
hesitation. For you mortals you do not understand the nature of my home, of
Oblivion.

You believe you know everything you can possibly know about this realm of
constant change and strife, but you do not. Seeing and listening to your pompous
mages – and I have listened to many of the mortal mage during those accursed
periods of brief servitude on Mundus – about how you believe that you understand
the very nature of Oblivion.

Ha! You mortals exhibit an arrogance that is not befitting of your place on the
battlefield. You are the lowest of scum, and only beneficial when you serve your
purpose. While you die we are merely defeated. How can you ever hope to defeat
us?

And now we come to the conclusion of why I have written this tome, bound in the
leathered skin of the forsaken and written in the ancient blood of troubled
souls. A guide to Oblivion written by a true denizen of Oblivion, not a silly
book of misconceptions and half-assed lies. So the next time one of you mortals
find yourselves wondering about the Planes of Oblivion, you may discover this
volume glowing menacingly beside you.

Waiting.

You wish to understand the concept of infinity? Then try, and we’ll see if you
can fully comprehend it.

## On The Nature of Oblivion

Oblivion is the fire that is constantly flickering in the blistering wind.
Oblivion is the bear gnawing on the man who drew to close to its teeth. It is
these things and much more, and at the same it is none of them.

The Realm of Oblivion is a very chaotic place that you will never fully
understand and that is why I am forced to simplify things to your ignorant
minds. Within it resides many realms, as numerous as the stars, and its own
peoples. One such people is the Kyn, which your kind so aggravatingly calls
Dremora, and we lay claim to many places.

How can I explain the infinite to finite mind? Well, think of Oblivion as a
parallel to your chaotic sea (we Daedra are very fond of the sea, as it is a
constant source of change as we are ourselves) on Nirn. The sea itself is the
entirety of Oblivion; constantly shifting and flowing in all possible
directions. The abodes of the Lords of Tumult are islands, remaining mostly
still in the water. Ships are mortals travelling through Oblivion and Shipwrecks
are…well, guess. Hahahaha! Whirlpools are portals that allow passage or exit to
Oblivion, and can also kill you if not navigated correctly. Swim far enough into
the abyss and you’ll find yourself swimming upwards in the oceans of Nirn and
vice versa.

Yes, we Daedra are very fond of your seas mortals. Who do you think taught the
men and women you fear as pirates how to navigate it? Have you ever realized how
similar we are? Forces of chaos residing in a realm of chaos. No, you never
realized this. For you mortals believe you know everything, and the more you
mortals try to grasp the concept of eternity within a mind that will eventually
die the more you don’t know anything at all.

Oblivion is like the Sea. Come swim in its waters and let us drown you.

## On The Denizens of Oblivion

The Daedra populate the waters of Oblivion, and we are the only ones who will
ever fully understand how to sail them. However, the maps to do so are always
altering themselves, and so the Lesser Denizens are all perpetual to a lack of
perception. That is the only thing we envy that you mortals have. While you can
traverse your environment with ease we Daedra are always wary for the next wave,
and thus our directional skills are poor. Like the sea serpents that reside in
your oceans on Mundus, we can be taken out but must eventually return to the
tides. When we are summoned under wretched slavery to do the will of mages, when
we are defeated we do not die. We are merely sent back into the flowing waters
of Oblivion where we are reborn.

The Greater Daedra, who are the Princes of Misrule, control the islands, the
places that are only mostly fixed within our realm. There have been many
Princes, but some have been ripped apart so brutally they will never be
reformed. Others are too obscure to be even thought of by mortals, so there is
no point in me writing them down for your weak minds to try to understand.
Currently, there are only Seventeen Princes that govern Oblivion. Everything
that happens in the seas of Oblivion is always monitored by them. No one can
ever escape them.

Next is the Kyn, my ilk, who number in numbers uncountable and are as different
as we are plentiful. We serve the Princes of Misrule faithfully, and they reward
us for our aid. Whatever our Lord decrees, we act upon. We brutalize. We
pillage. We wage war. We ravage everything that stands in our path. There is no
escape from us.

The Lesser Daedra are next. They are stupid, weak, and undisciplined in the arts
of correctly waging wars. But they are easily manipulated, and serve as
excellent pawns in large schemes of battle. Each Prince has Lesser Daedra that
follow them, but no one truly cares about them. But you mortals should fear
them. They are dogs and we are their masters. You may put them down but we will
only bring them back. Even they you cannot escape.

And then there are you mortals. Washed onto the shores of the islands not
knowing where you are but feeling the pain. Do not fight the fear; let it enter
you and allow it to become a part of you. Embrace the change. In the waters of
Oblivion, you cannot even escape yourself.

## On The Customs of Oblivion

There are only two rules in the whole of Oblivion, written as glowing sigils in
the eyes of every Daedra with tortured souls: Do not fight the changes and allow
them to happen. And do not be weak. Neglecting these two rules will only result
in you drowning in the frigid seas of Oblivion, and surrendering yourself to its
infinite depths. That is what awaits those who do not adhere to the rules of
Oblivion.

You must be able to fight to survive these savage seas. If you cannot you will
not last and no one will mourn your passing, your soul merely becoming one of
many screaming for mercy.

Respect the Princes and do not anger them. Even we of the Kyn grow nervous when
one of the Lords of Misrule grows impatient. Do not tempt nor challenge the
Lesser Daedra. They are not intelligent enough to realize a jest and will devour
you without hesitation. Do not mock the Kyn. We have no patience for your mortal
souls and have ways of exacting revenge against you.

Do not make us come and find you.

## On The Surviving of Oblivion

You cannot.

But you can try.

## Afterword

That is all that is needed to be said about Oblivion. You do not need to know
about the individual islands – you must discover their locations and customs
yourselves. This tome was only written to inform you of the information that you
can’t be informed. Enter the oceans of Oblivion and become lost on its waves.
