---
series: A Model of the Godhead and its Contents
part: 1
title: Wherein a Mess is Hopefully Made Sense Of
reddit: 21c4yy
author: MareloRyan
date: 2014-03-25T17:22:03Z
---

## What the hell is the Godhead, and what does it contain?

At the very top, encompassing all else, I place the Godhead, the blank
dreamscape, that which all else distinguishes itself within. It has no inherent
concepts except the rules that enable Dreams.

Within the Godhead, an infinite array of Dreams, each an Amaranth unto itself,
paradoxically both branching off of each other and depending on nothing else but
themselves and the Godhead’s rules. Amaranths determine everything within
themselves _except_ for the Godhead’s rules. This is how it’s possible to learn
about the Godhead and form a new Amaranth from within the rules and concepts of
another.

An Amaranth _tends_ to carry concepts from its progenitor Amaranth into itself,
tends to remember things. But memory is sometimes flawed, or deliberately
altered. Either way, all cosmology is locally contained within an Amaranth, and
can differ from one Amaranth to another.

Within an Amaranth, the rules of the Godhead can make themselves known through
CHIM. CHIM/Amaranth is always [metaphysically possible][0], throughout the
Godhead. But the internal structure of a given Amaranth may or may not lend
itself to the actual achievement of CHIM/Amaranth. That is, it might be
nomologically impossible, within the physics of some Dreams, to _realize_ that
they are Dreams. Those would be dead-end Amaranths, which cannot produce further
Amaranths.

On the other end of that spectrum, we can have a Dream that is structured
particularly well for the revelation of the Godhead’s rules. I would argue that
Anu’s Dream, containing Tamriel, fits this bill.

Within the rules of Anu’s Dream, we have c0das. These are infinite variations of
its own history, which _tend_ to center around a particular pattern of events,
but nevertheless contain versions which do not. Think of it like prime numbers.
Most integers are not prime (most c0das don’t diverge much from the general
pattern), but, within the infinite set of integers is an infinite set of primes
(within the infinite set of c0das, an infinite amount of them do diverge from
the general pattern).

C0das in Anu’s Dream appear to have something to do with the absence of Memory.
Anu’s Dream is amnesiac. It can’t remember the difference between the
hypothetical and the real, between the fiction and the non-fiction. Stories
exist in Anu’s Dream, stories _are_ reality, to the point that even if something
once wasn’t “just a story”, it definitely is now and, paradoxically, always was.
So the c0da depicted in _C0DA_, then, probably was the “original” timeline from
which all other c0das diverge, but its own events render that distinction
meaningless.

Further, it’s possible for c0das to converge and diverge and interact freely,
just like cross-over fiction and spin-offs and so on. Of course, that also
implies the existence of corresponding c0das which do _not_ interact with each
other.

(There could be, and probably are given the infinite nature of the Godhead,
other Dreams with phenomena like or identical to c0das.)

Between the omnipresent laws of the Godhead, the infinite variation of c0das,
and the general structure of the Aurbis and its subgradients within most of
those c0das, I think Anu’s Dream is an _incredibly_ prolific one. Not only does
every single entity get infinite chances at discovering the Godhead, but every
single entity actually succeeds in an infinite number of those attempts (which
is contained within the greater infinite set of c0das in which they do not).
From the perspective of any given single c0da and its denizens, there are very
few entities who achieved CHIM, let alone Amaranth (the infinite variations of
Vivec, Talos, possibly Jubal among them, because they were present in the
original from which most are patterned). But, if you regard the whole, you’ve
got infinite Amaranths, Amaranths for _days_.

## So where do kalpas fit in this?

I think they’re subject to the infinite variation of c0das. Each c0da has its
own set of kalpas, and whether Tamriel’s kalpa is the last (or even occurs at
all) depends on the c0da.

## What about CHIM?

I’ll just point you to [this thread][1] for the mechanics of CHIM under my
model, which were inspired by the thoughts of [Jaridase_Zasmyocl][2],
[RottenDeadite][3], and [Mdnthrvst][4]. For now, though, you just need to know
that CHIM is the stepping stone to Amaranth. It’s knowledge of the Godhead’s
workings through unity with your progenitor Amaranth, and that knowledge allows
you to step outside of that progenitor and become your own Amaranth.

## How does the subgradient structure of the Aurbis contribute to CHIM and new Amaranths?

It reveals the Wheel by [repeating it, over and over again, smaller and smaller,
with more and more focused depictions][5]. The Wheel is the fundamental unity of
an Amaranth with everything within it. Turn it on its side and see the I. That
gets you to CHIM.

The jump to Amaranth, then, is the realization that if there’s an I, that means
there’s something that _isn’t_ I, something from which I distinguishes itself.
That something has to be the Godhead, the blankness. I’d wager this is
symbolized within the context of the Wheel first by the Void, then by Oblivion,
then by the oceans. What’s across the Godhead from Anu? Other Amaranths. What’s
across Oblivion from Mundus? Other realms, the Princes. What’s across the oceans
from Tamriel? Other continents. This brings us to:

## Akavir as the Future, and the Continents in General

A lot of hubbub surrounding this lately! Essentially, MK put forth the idea that
Akavir is the Nu-Amaranth. If taken literally, this has… Problems. Problems the
solutions to which cause even more problems.

So I’m not taking it literally (though the exploration of it was fun).

Rather, I’m adopting [this view][6]:

> - dream A = Yokuda of myth + unknown Tamriel + unknown Akavir
> - dream B = remembered Yokuda + Tamriel we know + Akavir we know
> - dream C = remembered Yokuda + Remembered Tamriel + Unknown Akavir.

Where A is Anu’s progenitor, B is Anu, and C is (at least one of) Anu’s progeny.
In this model, MK’s statements about Akavir being the Amaranth and the future
can be read as a description of C, not of B. The imagery of east/west time is a
carryover from the procession of the Sun: New days always start in the east. A
new Dream might carry that concept forward, and set itself in a version of an
eastern continent from its progenitor Dream. Likewise, Anu might remember its
progenitor Amaranth by placing Yokuda, a blasted world (remember Nir’s murder?)
as a symbol of it, to the west, which is the symbolic past.

This fits especially well if you consider the above about the structure of the
Aurbis and its subgradients. Why wouldn’t a Nu-Amaranth from that structure
center its dream on another continent, if the continents were always symbols
hinting at the possibility of Amaranth?

And it also explains why travel to Yokuda is apparently fine, but travel to
Akavir is weird. The memories of the past are clear, because Anu was from the
Amaranth that Yokuda symbolizes. But the Amaranth that Akavir symbolizes is
alien to Anu. Anu doesn’t get it. It’s hypothetical to Anu, a land symbolizing
what _might_ be. And sometimes it’s scary, and confusing, and not what we
expect, and sometimes it seems like it’s already here and changing the world we
thought we knew, the people we thought we were. Thence the Akaviri invasions,
the Potentates, the Dragonguard. Thence the failure of Uriel V’s invasion,
because you can’t live in the future, you can only live in the present.

Atmora, the continent, too, would be a symbol of the conceptual space from which
humans hail, just as Aldmeris is for the mer. Maybe the reason Aldmeris seems
not to have a physical continent is because of the merish cultural rejection of
the physical, of the constraints of Mundus, whereas humans embrace it. But
Atmora is frozen over, motionless, and inhospitable, which is how humans’
predecessors might characterize existence outside of Mundus.

## Nagging Question

Where the hell did Memory go, if not [literally into Akavir][7]? Did it just
die? Was its leaving/death yet another symbol of the possibility of Amaranth, to
provoke the question of where it could have gone? In that sense, is it an
inverse of an Earthbone? Earthbones died to nail down limits, but Memory died to
free Anu from its constraints?

---

[Part II](./21fqmi)

[Part III](./21rpzs)

[Addendum I](./23lwi6)

[Addendum II](./250750)

[Addendum III](./269ad8)

[0]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subjunctive_possibility#Types_of_subjunctive_possibility
[1]: ./24wmh2
[2]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/1wv03c/its_selfish_love_right_when_coupled_with_i_are/
[3]: ./1gu4qy
[4]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/246nt1/why_cant_tiber_use_chim_on_masser/ch46u21
[5]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/loveletter-fifth-era-true-purpose-tamriel
[6]: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/218fqj/why_the_yokuda_is_the_past_world_of_anu_theory_is/cgb1psn
[7]: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/20xsru/memory_left_for_akavir/
