---
title: Missive from the Tang Mo
reddit: 21cau5
author: Lord_Hoot
date: 2014-03-25T18:17:54Z
---

To his esteemed holiness the Emperor Titus Septim, convener and synthesis of all
barbarian people of the Western Mystery Island, be they wise or stupid. As ever,
I have the honour of being his excellency King Jigra Mo, Radiant Emperor and
Learned Sage of the island called _Act Now, Discuss Later_, strongest bough of
the Thousand and Thousand Islands of Tang Mo. I write during a cloudless orange
sunset, with an easterly wind cooling my labours. I hope this missive finds you
well, brave chieftain!

In your last contact you expressed a wish to learn more about the glittering
realm of the Thousand and Thousand Islands of Tang Mo, where all monkeys are
Emperors and no thoughts are wasted. I should be happy to enlighten you, and
will use simple language so you are not confused.

My island is at the summit of a great archipelago. I swing from the royal branch
and eat the fruit of the \[untranslatable\], which gives colour to my dreams.
From the highest point of the island I can shout to my neighbours. There is my
cousin, Luminous Emperor Oro Mo of the island _Consider The Small Things_. There
is my cousin, Astral Emperor Pholaa Mo of the island _Embrace Solipsism_ (with
whom I rarely speak). Then there is my cousin, Shimmering Empress Cu Mo of the
island _Refer Always To Elder Wisdom_, with whom I have many interesting
discussions. I could go on until I run out of paper! But I will not.

Unlike your realm, where there are only two kinds of folk who argue all the time
and nothing gets done, here we live as enlightened monkeys. While some outside
the Thousand and Thousand Islands cleave to one idea or another, or to no idea
at all (curses on them most of all! How fearful!), we embrace all notions except
consensus. Every island is the centre of the archipelago, every Emperor is
supreme ruler. I think this is a difficult idea for you, as you are only part
monkey. I have enclosed calculation powder with this missive. It is a big risk!
But it might help you to comprehend.

Life here is good but it is not perfect. The stupid ideas of foreigners cause a
lot of trouble. The Cynical Dancers try to spread their ideas into the islands,
and made my cousin Ililia Mo go the wrong kind of crazy. Her island’s name has
had to be made secret, to protect the others. It makes me sad to think about it.
And then I heard the Dancers were even trying to send their ideas to you! It
seems pointless! Such a faraway place of no significance! But you must not
listen to them unless they say good things about Tang Mo, in which case write
them down in your hardiest alphabets.

Our friends the Noble Leapers also cause us problems, although they do not mean
to. They want all things to be the same everywhere, which is too naïve a concept
to be taken seriously. They are a little like you, my friend! No offense! We
have had to send a Monkey Dragon, the great Shraka Mo, Sage of Sages, to them.
He seems to have made them calm, and when his schedule allows he swims from
island to island to hear our latest thoughts.

I must stop writing soon; my foot is tired. In addition to the calculation
powder I have sent some of the items you requested as treasures or curios- a
vial of blood from my thinking-tree, a list of Near-Perfect Fallacies, and a new
way of perceiving colours (inscribed by foot on a big shell I found). Please
remember to send the things I requested in your response. I am particularly
interested in receiving the ‘HoonDing’ I asked for. I hope you can spare it.

May your eyes and ears always be clear, and may your voice howl with truth.

---

This note was found in a bottle on the shores of Lake Rumare. It is presumably a
hoax, but an odd one. One would assume a hoaxer would know enough to address the
letter to the current Emperor, Uriel Septim VII. I’ve never heard of any “Titus
Septim”.
