---
title: Battlespire Report
reddit: 21f4fz
author: ASAMANNAMMEDNIGEL
date: 2014-03-26T15:21:41Z
---

> The following report was found buried under a stack of old documents and
> papers, sometime during the late third era. It details the operational history
> of an apparently classified battlespire, operating within the realms of
> Oblivion? It appears the empire have fallen a far way, if we are this reduced
> to squabbling amongst the provinces.

{:tag="aside” .foreword}

**Imperial Battlespire X-008 – Code Name “Reman’s Sword” – Pelinal Class
Battlespire**

_Covert reconnaisance battlespire – In active service since 3E340, declared MIA
along with all hands, 3E355_

**Objective:**

Battlespire X-008 “Reman’s Sword” was used as an early detection reconnaisance
craft to alert the empire of any impending danger from the waters of oblivion.

**History:**

_3E334_ – Approval for the construction of 8 (X-001 through X-008) Pelinal Class
Battlespires, for use in covert reconnaisance granted approval from the Elder
Council.

_3E339_ – Construction of X-008 complete. Commander and crew to be assigned.

_3E340_ – All X- classified battlespires are given greenlight to begin
operations

_3E342_ – “The Apocrypha Debacle". X-008 (along with X-007 &amp; X-005) responds
to a distress call coming from X-003, orbiting apocrypha. 278 of the 330 crew of
X-003 have abandoned the ship to investigate and remain on Apocrypha. Without
adequate staff, the X-003 had come under the grip of Apocrypha, and was being
drawn into the plane. Imperial command issued a stay on rescue mission into
Apocrypha, and the remaining 52 members aboard X-003 were safely rescued.
Remaining Crew of X-003 deemed MIA.

_3E345_ – “The Battle of Coldharbor” – Denizens from Coldharbor begin the siege
of X-004. Remaining X- classified battlespires in the operational area (X-008,
X-007, X-005, X-002, X-001) join to reinforce. X-004 is captured by Coldharbor
Daedra, and is crashed into X-001. X-007 is heavily damaged, though a succesful
evacuation to the remaining battlespires is made. Imperial command orders a
tactical retreat after the loss of X-002. Total losses reach 4 Battlespires, and
216 crew confirmed KIA, with another 1104 labeled MIA.

_3E347_ – “Rescue of Legate Martonius Ardor” – A teleportation misshap aboard
X-008, causes a Legate to be stranded in the Realm of Quagmire. Shadow Legion is
dispatched, and a comatose Legate Martonius Ardor is retrieved. Legate’s
condition was said to be stable, but in a state of indefinite sleep.

_3E350_ – “Final Reports” – During operations surveilling Quagmire, it is noted
that sitrep’s from X-008 become increasingly far and few in between. Notes of a
strange gas leaking from the medical bays have rendered several of the hands
unconcious, and unable to perform duty. A rescue battlespire is dispatched, but
no sign of the X-008 is found. Search and Rescue through the waters of oblivion
is conducted, though no results are shown.

_3E355_ – Imperial Battlespire X-008 “Reman’s Sword” Declared MIA, all hands
declared MIA.
