---
title: Article 16 from the Legion’s Report on the “Sleeping Sickness”
reddit: 21fox4
author: ASAMANNAMMEDNIGEL
date: 2014-03-26T18:37:01Z
---

Record submitted - 4E 295, 13th of Second Seed

The following appears to be the only clue into the epidemic sweeping Cheydinhal
known as the “Sleeping Sickness”. A written transcription by one of our scribes
is included of the interrogation of a local farmer by the name of Frilmjar. No
family name. The interrogating Legionnaire is Artoxius Dromus.

---

Transcription of interrogation of a local farmer from the Niben Basin, following
the events of what’s being called the “Sleeping Sickness”.

**Imperial Interrogator**: Tell it again, from the start. The scribe will take
it down as you say it.

**Farmer**: Uhh… Ok, hmm. Well, I was just coming in from late night chores,
when I here a moaning coming from the bushes just over there.

_The farmer points in the direction of Lake Poppad, near some bushes._

**F**: So, Well, figuring some poor traveler was set upon by a bandit or gob’s,
I went over for a look-see, and guess what, it’s one of your men!

**II**: What do you mean by that? Be clear.

**F**: A legionnaire. Badly wounded too, in a sorry state if I ever saw one.
Looked like a Minotaur got the best of him. Anyways I brought him into the
house, and he was spouting a whole load of nonsense. Mentioned Vaermina by name
several times. Said something about a bog, er, a quagmire to be specific. Didn’t
make much sense to me.

**II**:… go on. There is a dead legionnaire in your house. What exactly did he
say?

**F**: Okay, okay… He mentioned something about the disease that hit Cheydinhal
recently, saying it was going to get worse, saying he saw it! He mentioned
sleeping people, vomiting out some form of cloud. It caused more people to fall
unconscious… and eventually they just, disappear he said! He then began
blathering about slipping into the quagmire again, how it would drown us all. It
was a lot of nonsense…

_The Legionnaire stands, an air of urgency about him. He grabs the disheveled
farmer by his burlap shirt_

**II**: Is that it? Was there no one else? No other legionnaires?

**F**: He was alone, on Akatosh I swear it! The Dagon take my soul. He said all
the others were lost. Dead or worse! His words exactly! Oh! and this, he had
this!

_The Legionnaire release the farmer, who then produces a strange square cube,
made of a strange metal. A dark orange-gold in color, covered in strange runes.
The legionnaire snatches it from the farmer_

**II**: This looks old. Did he say what it was?

**F**: No, it was his last act to hand that to me, before he died in my bed.

_The interrogator sets the cube on the table the two men are sitting at._

**II**: Is that-

_A flash of blue light, and the cube rises about an inch in the air, myself, the
legionnaire, and the farmer are stunned in surprise. Suddenly, a metallic voice
sounds, extremely distorted, and stuttering quite frequently_

**Voice from Cube**: L-l-log Date - 3rd Er-, Year 350, Twenty-sixth of F-F-F-st
-eed. Log o-o-o-of Mar-to-to-tonius Ar-

_The voice breaks into static for a moment_

**Voice from Cube**: Location indeterminate, signalling locashu-shu-shu- as per
mergence proto…… Beginning recording.

\*At this point the metallic voice clicks off, and after several seconds of
silence, a male voice, much more human this time, clicks on

**Male Voice**: Oblivion has finally taken me. I’ll kill those mages if I ever
get back.

_The voice sounds fraught with worry. Moments of silence pass before he speaks
again._

**Male voice**: Bloody silent here. For the realm of Vae- Wait what was that!?

_A swoosh, and what sounds like a hand slapping mud quite forcefully drowns out
the voice for a moment. A yell is heard, distorting the noise. The sound of what
my best guess would be someone sloshing through knee deep water is heard._

**Male Voice**: Oh no. Not today. Talos save me from this hell pit. Where is the
legion! They should have realized I didn’t end up where I was supposed to by
now!

_The sound of feet on hardwood._

**Male Voice**: What is this devilry… a ship? I’m on a boat? I could have sworn
this was a bog…

_A baby’s laughter is heard, quietly in the background_

**Male Voice**: Oh dear divines…

_A new voice is heard. A woman’s? Possibly a male. Different from the first. It
at once sounds soothing and pleasant, yet still, it made the skin crawl
nonetheless, like nails grating on a board of chalk._

**Female Voice**: Does this form, scare you? I can take others, not that you
will enjoy them anymore. Not that you can do anything about it either!

_A gasp from the male voice_

**Male Voice**: What are you!? What do you want!? Let me go, please!

_Grunts come from the male voice_

**Female Voice**: No. I do not think so. You mortals are so. much. fun. And
besides! You came to visit me.

_The voice changes from a pleasant females to a piercing scream, barely audible_

**Screaming voice**: YOU INVADE MY HOME, BREACH THE SLEEPING SANCTITY OF MY
REALM AND DOn’t WANT TO SUFFER THE CONSEQUENCES?!?!?! WHY ARE YOU HERE?

_The screaming dies down, and the male voice groans weakly_

**Female voice**: What, do you not know who I am? What you were in for? Did your
people learn nothing the past ten years!?

_The pitch raises to a scream again_

**Screaming voice**: APOCRYPHA! COLDHARBOUR! AND NOW QUAGMIRE!?!?! YOUR HUBRIS
IS GREAT, BUT I CAN MAKE USE OF IT. SLEEP NOW. DREAM FOR ME, AS WE ARE DREAMED,
AND I SHALL SHOW YOU THE NIGHTMARE THIS DREAM REALLY IS!

_The sound suddenly cuts back to the metallic voice_

**Voice from Cube**: C-C-C-C-orrupted sound -ata, p-p-p-layback s-s-s-topped.
A-A-A-gain?

**II**: What in all of Tamriel was that?

**Voice from cube**: T-t-t-ermin-n-nating-g-g-g

_The cube reforms, and falls gently onto the table. The farmer has fainted_
