---
title: Letter from the Tsaesci to the Thalmor
reddit: 21su46
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2014-03-31T03:33:15Z
---

> I have recently discovered this letter during my service in Alinor. I can only
> hope this reaches Cyrodiil in time, because the implications of the letter are
> extremely disturbing, especially for the Blades. I’m afraid I’ve been
> discovered, and this will likely be my last report before the Thalmor come for
> me. I pray that my death will not be in vain.

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

To the Most Excellent Tragrim of the Thalmor,

Hail Tsaescence! The Uncoiled Monastery is most pleased with your recent
efforts. News of your plans to capture White-Gold Tower have been circulating
through the Cobra Emperor’s court with great excitement. This will be a great
step forward for both of our nations, and we eagerly await hearing of your
success.

I have heard that you have doubts of our loyalty to the plan. I assure you that
this is not the case. The rogue dragonhunters who traveled to Tamriel have
caused us just as much trouble as you. Indeed, their experiment has backfired
horribly-with grave repercussions for both of our nations.

Their journey was never sanctioned by the Cobra Emperor’s court. It was an
overzealous reactionary move by a few dragonslayers who were worried about the
rise of Tosh Raka.

He indeed has been a problem, but their failure to procure a Dragonborn hasn’t
helped matters. Instead of bringing a champion to the Tsaesci to stop Tosh Raka,
they created an empire in a foreign land-an Empire that attempted an invasion of
Tsaescian soil during a time when we were barely holding out against the Snow
Demons.

Worse, they indirectly created the abomination Talos. The creature is of
monstrous power, and while it has been content to rule Tamriel, we do not
appreciate the idea that we may have to fight another god in the future. Tosh
Raka is bad enough as it is.

The Causality Shield created by the Tsaescence of our Masters will shield us
from passive cause and effect in your dream, but it will not hold against an
invading god.

Surely you see now that we are your ally in this endeavor. As proof of this, we
have included Calculation Powder altered by some of our best Venom Brewers to
aid you in your endeavor. It is foreign to Talos, and should effectively shroud
your actions so that he will not be able to see you coming until it is too late.

You already know how to contact us if you require further assistance. Just
recall that I am not authorized to send soldiers or naval assistance to you. The
Emperor has agreed to quiet action on this, and quiet action only.

May you swallow your foes whole.

Fang Philosopher Vosido
