---
series: Gender in Tamrielic Faith
part: 0
title: Prelude to ALMSIVI
reddit: 2243n9
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2014-04-03T16:27:41Z
---

Good day.

Last month I got a lot of great feedback from many of you on my feminist series,
[_Femininity in Tamrielic Faith_][0] where I discussed the Nordic versions of
[Mara][1], [Kyne][2], and [Dibella][3] as analyzed in _Shor son of Shor_ and
taken [beyond][4].

I was later inspired partway through to do a series on ALMSIVI and their
respective Anticipations (Boethiah, Azura and Mephala). But I was struck with a
conundrum. It was easy to stick to the feminine when reading _Shor son of Shor_,
because the masculine and feminine spheres and characters were very clearly and
traditionally delineated.

This is a bigger challenge when it comes to ALMSIVI, because theirs is not a
story of manhood and womanhood, but a story of their blending, the mixing and
fuzzing of the traditional spheres. I had no choice but to expand the topic
slightly to encompass gender in general.

I will still use the feminist lens mostly, because there is a huge amount of
overlap between feminist issues and broader issues of gender and identity, but
you may see more discussion of masculine aspects than what I have done before.

Those essays will likely be a bit longer than the Nordic ones, as I will be
discussing two core personalities instead of one per post. I am going to try to
be as focused and concise as possible, so I am telling you now, these are not
going to be comprehensive analyses of the personalities. If you think I am
missing some aspect, it’s because for the sake of brevity I am deliberately
ignoring it. But I am more than happy to discuss the parts I missed in the
comments, and that is how I got inspired to do this series, so I welcome such
inspiration.

I will also be relying on several primary sources, such as _The 36 Lessons of
Vivec_, _C0DA_, the various Red Mountain accounts available at TIL, and various
pieces of art I have seen on the subjects on reddit and while creeping the
artists online for their portrayals of the characters and their settings. This
may mean longer between posts, and/or simply less in-depth analysis of each
source.

Kyne, Mara and Dibella tell one side of the story of the feminine mystique.
ALMSIVI and their Anticipations add another dimension to this discussion and
also tell a broader story about identity and sexuality, which despite being
extremely complex, is more accessible to a broader population, as it includes
more non-heteronormative and non-traditional portrayals.

The series will begin with Almalexia and Boethiah, followed by Sotha Sil and
Azura, and finally the infamous Vivec and Mephala, all with a smattering of
Nerevar(ine/s).

The ultimate goal is to better understand the imagery surrounding the
characters, which can hopefully shed some light on their behaviours and social
contexts. I am excited to see how my perceptions of them change as I explore
their motives and actions in context.

I will see you all soon, and welcome any suggestions you have now for the series
or sources you think I should also be looking at.

[0]: /s#femininity-in-tamrielic-faith
[1]: ./1zw5p0
[2]: ./205cnu
[3]: ./20kfc7
[4]: ./20u6zt
