---
series: A Concise Biography of High King Torygg
part: 2
title: A Concise Biography of High King Torygg, Volume II
hide_series: true
reddit: 22vi12
author: phil_hinds
date: 2014-04-12T20:01:24Z
pseudonym: Hroldar Hearty-Beard, True Skald of Haafingar
---

In the 193rd year of the Fourth Era, Torygg, along with a detachment of fifteen
soldiers tasked by Skald to keep the Nord safe, travelled from the snowy fields
of the Pale to the city of Markarth in the Reach.

The Nord entered Jarl Igmund’s bastion, Understone Keep, and requested an
audience with a man held prisoner in the mines. Igmund told him that he had no
control over the mines, and directed him to Thonar Silver-Blood, the head of the
Silver-Blood Clan.

Torygg was granted permisson from the Silver-Bloods and he entered the mines. It
was when he was a few miles down where he lay eyes on the Nord he had set out to
find. His hair had a dirty, blonde shade to it, an unkept beard and the physique
of a man who had worked in the silver mines for the past seventeen years.

He revealed himself to Torygg as Ulfric, the son of Jarl Hajfnar of Windhelm. He
gathered the other miners round and told Torygg his life story, of how at a
young age he was chosen to be taught by the Greybeards of High Hrothgar the Way
of the Voice and how he would be inducted into the order when he had gained the
knowlege of the Thu’um.

He told how he had heard in a letter sent to him that the Thalmor of Summerset
had slain all of the Blades in the Isles and Valenwood, and presented their
heads to the Emperor, Titus Mede II.

He told of how he had abandoned his training at Hrothgar to signed up for the
Legion. He told of the battles he had fought in the name of Talos against the
Dominion in Cyrodiil and how he used the power of Old to tear them into pieces.

He told of how the Thalmor had captured a small battalion of men including
himself and was tortured for weeks on end with abhorrent magic.

He told of how the Legion _crushed_ the elves at the Battle of the Red Ring, and
how the Emperor had betrayed the Empire by banning the worship of Holy Talos.

He told of how on his return to Skyrim, he was employed by Jarl Hrolfdir of
Markarth to eradicate the Reachmen that had invaded and taken control of the
city, in exchange for the free worship of Talos, in spite of the White-Gold
Concordat.

He angrily told of how he was betrayed by the Jarl, and was thrown into the
mines to appease the scum of Alinor.

He told of how he missed his father and how he would like to see him one more
time before he died.

Ulfric broke down into a sea of tears, and Torygg saw a broken man before him.
The heir to the seat of Solitude said he would see to it that he would be
released a free Nord.

The Silver-Blood’s pockets were filled with enough gold to persuade them to set
Ulfric free, and Torygg escorted him to Windhelm, and began plans to rid Skyrim
of Imperial control.
