---
title: "Hear Ye: I begin with nothing."
reddit: 23fao7
author: Kim_Shlong_Il
date: 2014-04-19T08:35:39Z
---

Nothing is the same as fullness. In the endless state fullness is the same as
emptiness. The Nothing is both empty and full. One may just as well state some
other thing about the Nothing, namely that it is white or that it is black or
that it exists or that it exists not. That which is endless and eternal has no
qualities, because it has all qualities.

The Nothing, or fullness, is called by us the WHEEL. In it thinking and being
cease, because the eternal is without qualities. In it there is no one, for if
anyone were, he would be differentiated from the Wheel and would possess
qualities which would distinguish him from the Wheel.

In the Wheel there is nothing and everything: it is not profitable to think
about the Wheel, for to do that would mean one’s dissolution.

The CREATED WORLD is not in the Wheel, but in itself. The Wheel is the beginning
and end of the created world. The Wheel penetrates the created world as the
sunlight penetrates the air everywhere. Although the Wheel penetrates it
completely, the created world has no part of it, just as an utterly transparent
body does not become either dark or light in color as the result of the passage
of light through it. We ourselves, however, are the Wheel, so it is that the
Wheel is present within us. Even in the smallest point the Wheel is present
without any bounds, eternally and completely, for small and great are the
qualities which are alien to the Wheel. The Wheel is the nothingness which is
everywhere complete and without end. It is because of this that I speak of the
created world as a portion of the Wheel, but only in an allegorical sense; for
the Wheel is not divided into portions, for it is nothingness. We, also, are the
total Wheel; for figuratively the Wheel is an exceedingly small, hypothetical,
even non-existent point within us, and also it is the limitless firmament of the
cosmos about us. Why, however, do we discourse about the Wheel, if it is the
all, and also nothing?

I speak of it in order to begin somewhere, and also to remove from you the
delusion that somewhere within or without there is something absolutely firm and
definite. All things which are called definite and solid are but relative, for
only that which is subject to change appears definite and solid.

The created world is subject to change. It is the only thing that is solid and
definite, since it has qualities. In fact, the created world is itself but a
quality.

We ask the question: how did creation originate? Creatures indeed originated but
not the created world itself, for the created world is a quality of the Wheel,
in the same way as the uncreated; eternal death is also a quality of the Wheel.
Creation is always and everywhere, and death is always and everywhere. The Wheel
possesses all: differentiation and non-differentiation.

Differentiation is creation. The created world is indeed differentiated.
Differentiation is the essence of the created world and for this reason the
created also causes further differentiation. That is why man himself is a
divider, inasmuch as his essence is also differentiation. That is why he
distinguishes the qualities of the Wheel, yea, those qualities which do not
exist.

You say to me: What good is it then to talk about this, since it has been said
that it is useless to think about the Wheel?

I say these things to you in order to free you from the illusion that it is
possible to think about the Wheel. When you speak about the divisions of the
Wheel, we are speaking from the position of our own divisions, and we speak
about our own differentiated state; but while we do this, we have in reality
said nothing about the Wheel. However, it is necessary to talk about our own
differentiation, for this enables us to discriminate sufficiently. Our essence
is differentiation. For this reason we must distinguish individual qualities.

You say: What harm does it do not to discriminate? Then we reach beyond the
limits of our own being; we extend ourselves beyond the created world, and we
fall into the undifferentiated state which is another quality of the Wheel. We
submerge into the Wheel itself, and we cease to be created beings. This we
become subject to dissolution and nothingness.

Such is the very death of the created being. We die to the extent that we fail
to discriminate. For this reason the natural impulse of the created being is
directed toward differentiation and toward the struggle against the ancient,
pernicious state of sameness. The natural tendency is called Principium
Individuationis (Principle of Individuation). This principle is indeed the
essence of every created being. From these things you may readily recognize why
the undifferentiated principle and lack of discrimination are all a great danger
to created beings. For this reason we must be able to distinguish the qualities
of the Wheel. Its qualities are the PAIRS OF OPPOSITES, such as:

```verse
the effective and the ineffective
fullness and emptiness
the living and the dead
light and dark
hot and cold
energy and matter
time and space
good and evil
the beautiful and the ugly
the one and the many
and so forth.
```

{:.text-right}

The pairs of opposites are the qualities of the Wheel: they are also in reality
non-existent because they cancel each other out.

Since we ourselves are the Wheel, we also have these qualities present within
us; inasmuch as the foundation of our being is differentiation, we possess these
qualities in the name and under the sign of differentiation, which means:

First—that the qualities are in us differentiated from each other, and they are
separated from each other, and thus they do not cancel each other out, rather
they are in action. It is thus that we are the victims of the pairs of
opposites. For in us the Wheel is rent in two.

Second—the qualities belong to the Wheel, and we can and should partake of them
only in the name and under the sign of differentiation. We must separate
ourselves from these qualities. In the Wheel they cancel each other out; in us
they do not. But if we know how to know ourselves as being apart from the pairs
of opposites, then we have attained to salvation.

When we strive for the good and the beautiful, we thereby forget about our
essential being, which is differentiation, and we are victimized by the
qualities of the Wheel which are the pairs of opposites. We strive to attain to
the good and beautiful, but at the same time we also to the evil and the ugly,
because in the Wheel these are identical with the good and the beautiful.
However, if we remain faithful to our nature, which is differentiation, we then
differentiate ourselves from the good and the beautiful, and thus we have
immediately differentiated ourselves from the evil and the ugly. It is only thus
that we do not merge into the Wheel, that is, into nothingness and dissolution.

You will object and say to me: Thou hast said that differentiation and sameness
are also qualities of the Wheel. How is it then that we strive for
differentiation? Are we not then true to our natures and must we then also
eventually be in the state of sameness, while we strive for differentiation?

What you should never forget is that the Wheel has no qualities. We are the ones
who create these qualities through our thinking. When you strive after
differentiation or sameness or after other qualities, you strive after thoughts
which flow to you from the Wheel, namely thoughts about the non-existent
qualities of the Wheel. While you run after these thoughts, you fall again into
the Wheel and arrive at differentiation and sameness at the same time. Not your
thinking but your being is differentiation. That is why you should not strive
after differentiation and discrimination as you know these, but strive after
your true nature. If you would thus truly strive, you would not need to know
anything about the Wheel and its qualities, and still you would arrive at the
true goal because of your nature. However, because thinking alienates us from
our true nature, therefore I must teach knowledge to you, with which you can
keep your thinking under control.
