---
title: In-Depth Collation Between Argonians and Hinduism
subtitle: Gods, Spirit, and Reality (Part 1)
reddit: 23l35f
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-04-21T12:35:42Z
---

**_“Hindus believe in a one, all-pervasive Supreme Being who is both immanent
and transcendent, both Creator and Unmanifest Reality.”_**

**_“Hindus believe in the divinity of the four Vedas, the world's most ancient
scripture, and venerate the Agamas as equally revealed. These primordial hymns
are God's word and the bedrock of Sanatana Dharma, the eternal religion.”_**

**_“Hindus believe that the universe undergoes endless cycles of creation,
preservation and dissolution.”_**

**_“Hindus believe that divine beings exist in unseen worlds and that temple
worship, rituals, sacraments and personal devotionals create a communion with
these devas and Gods.”_**

**_“Hindus believe that no religion teaches the only way to salvation above all
others, but that all genuine paths are facets of God's Light, deserving
tolerance and understanding.”_**

Pervasive (adj.): Spreading widely throughout an area or a group of people.

Immanent (adj.): Existing or operating within; inherent.

Transcendent (adj.): Beyond or above the range of normal or merely physical
human experience.

Hinduism is unique amongst other religions in that it is both monotheistic and
henotheistic, but most usually identify it mainly with Henotheism. In
Henotheism, one worships one god without denying the existence of other deities.
In Hinduism, there are over three hundred and thirty-three million gods;
however, they are all just mere extensions of the Supreme Being, the one true
God of the Hindu faith. Because of this, Hinduism consists of one God and has an
extensive hierarchy of Gods. Some look at these Gods as mere symbols –
personifications and representations of natural, mental, and spiritual forces.
But the truth, however, is that the Mahadevas are individual soul beings, and
down through the ages ordinary men and women, great saints and sages, prophets
and mystics in all cultures have inwardly seen, heard, and been profoundly
influenced by these superconscious inner plane beings.

The word used for the devotion of the Hindu gods is known as Bhakti, and is
described as an “entire realm of knowledge and practice unto itself, ranging
from the childlike wonder of the unknown and the mysterious to the deep
reverence which comes with understanding of esoteric interworkings of the three
worlds.” The Three Worlds are Hinduism’s view on existence. The First World is
the physical universe that you can touch; the Second World is the astral/mental
plane where the Deva (lesser gods) and the mortal spirits reside. The Third
World is the spiritual universe where the main Hindu gods (Mahadevas) exist.
Hinduism consists of the harmonious working together of the Three Worlds.

The Supreme Being and Primal God in Hinduism is often seen as Brahma, and whose
existence is also the prime Parabrahman – the absolute omniscient consciousness.
Brahma is derived from the Sanskrit ‘Brh’, which means to grow, manifest,
expand, referring to the Brahma Mind of pure consciousness that underlies,
emanates and resonates as all existence. At the same time, Brahma is also
Purusha, the Primal Soul. He is the perfection of being, the original soul who
creates/emanates innumerable individual souls - including the Gods.

One of the main reasons why the Hindu religion consists of so many deities
(three hundred and thirty-three million gods!) is because India (the country
where Hinduism was founded) consists of many peoples of many cultures of many
languages, who all view the nature of the Supreme Being differently. Through
history there arose four principal Hindu denominations—Saivism, Shaktism,
Vaishnavism and Smartism. For Sai-vites, God is Siva. For Shaktas, Goddess
Shakti is supreme. For Vaishnavites, Lord Vishnu is God. For Smartas – who see
all Deities as reflections of the One God – the choice of Deity is left to the
devotee. This liberal Smarta perspective is well known, but it is not the
prevailing Hindu view. It is this diversity that explains why Hindus are
profoundly tolerant of other religions, respecting the fact that each has its
own pathway back to the Supreme Being, God. Further, the Mahadevas who live in
the Third World cannot be likened to the men and women who live on earth. They
exist in perfectly evolved soul bodies, bodies which are not properly
differentiated by sex. They are pure beings made of pure consciousness and
light; they are neither male nor female. To better understand the Mahadevas, we
sometimes conceive them as being the man if they are strong in expression or the
woman if they are gentle and compassionate. There are no husbands and wives in
the vast, superconscious realms of the Third World. The husband/wife notion is a
puranic myth. The term Goddess can refer to a female perception or depiction of
a Third World being (Mahadeva) in its natural state, which is genderless, or to
a Second World being residing in a female astral-mental body.

For some Hindus, the three deities Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva form a heavenly
triad that fulfills the purpose of the Supreme Being (however, some sects within
Hinduism worship each of the three as the Supreme Being on their own). Brahma is
the Creator of the universe, the starter of all time. In India, the ox are
sacred to him because they also create. Vishnu is the Preserver of the universe,
and keeps the cosmos stabilized. According to Hindu belief, he has sent nine
incarnations/avatars to walk amongst the earth. These include Rama (the
seventh), Krishna (the eighth), and the Buddha (the ninth); his tenth avatar
will supposedly herald the end of the world. Shiva is the Destroyer of the
universe, and is also known as the Lord of Beasts and the Cosmic Dance. He
destroys this universe to bring forth the next, continuing the cycle of constant
death and rebirth. Because of this, Shiva is often a creator god as well.

It is, however, possible to free one self from this constant cycle. Vishnu’s
ninth avatar – the Buddha – began this teaching in what would become the
foundation of Buddhism. Born as an Indian prince named Siddartha Gautama in the
area that is currently known as Nepal, he renounced all of his wealth and went
through severe self-control and refrained from all forms of indulgences. Through
this spiritual undertaking, he eventually achieved Enlightenment – the action or
state of attaining or having attained spiritual knowledge or insight; an
awareness which frees a person from the cycle of rebirth, no longer bound by the
law of karma. Enlightenment (Moksha) is liberation from everything.

The core view of Hinduism is that God is not far away, living in a remote
heaven, but is inside each and every soul, in the heart and consciousness,
waiting to be discovered. This knowing that God is always with you gives an
individual hope and courage. Knowing the Supreme Being in this intimate and
experiential way is the goal of Hindu spirituality.

It is in the Hindu temple that the Three Worlds meet and devotees invoke the
Gods of their religion. The temple is built as a palace in which the Gods live.
It is the home of the Gods, a sacred place unlike every other place on the
earth. Hindus must associate themselves with these Gods in a very sensitive way
when they approach the temple. Though the devotees rarely haves psychic visions
of the Deity, they are aware of the God's divine presence. As they approach the
sanctum sanctorum, the Hindu is fully aware that an intelligent being, greater
and more evolved than himself, is there. This God is intently aware of the
worshipper, safeguarding them, fully knowing their inmost thought, fully capable
of coping with any situation the devotee may mentally tell them. It is important
that a Hindu approaches the Deity in this way - conscious and confident that
their needs are known throughout the Three Worlds.

The physical representation of the God, be it a stone or metal image, a yantra
or other sacred form, simply marks the place that the God will manifest in or
hover over in his etheric body. It can be conceived as an antenna to receive the
divine rays of the God or as the material body in or through which the God
manifests in the First World. When one performs puja – a religious ritual – they
are directly attracting the attention of the devas and Mahadevas of the Second
and Third Worlds to the First World. That is the purpose of a puja; it is a form
of communication. To enhance this communication we establish an altar in the
temple or in the home. This becomes charged or magnetized through devotional
thoughts and feelings which radiate out and affect the surrounding environment.
Hindus can feel the presence of these divine beings, and this radiation from
them is known as shakti.

## Part I: Applying These Ideals to the World of the Elder Scrolls.

Parabrahman can be easily identified with Amaranth, with both consisting of
having an individual – the Supreme Being – existing and manifesting throughout
all things. The Supreme Being is the Godhead (Original/Previous/New/Current),
and his/her consciousness is present throughout all things and beings within
their Dream. Because of this, the Dream identifies with Purusha the Primal Soul.
The Dream exists because it the Godhead’s ideal perfect creation, the perfect
universe as they perceive it. Within the Dream exists innumerable diverse
creations with their own souls, who (through CHIM/Moksha) can attain their own
Amaranth. Because of this, the Dream (Purusha) is the Primal Soul of the Godhead
(the Supreme Being) who is the Primal God, who existence defines Amaranth
(Parabrahman).

The First World is Mundus, the physical plane, where all mortal creatures
reside. The Second World is both the Dreamsleeve for the spirits of the dead,
the Hist, and the waters of Oblivion for the Devas, with all three places
recycling the soul for future reincarnation. The Third World is the Void,
Aetherius, and the planes of Oblivion all at once, and is where the Mahadevas –
the most powerful of deities – reside. Together, they are the Aurbis, the
harmony that occurs when all Three Worlds flow equally with one another.

The continuing cycle of creation, preservation, and destruction are Kalpas. Each
Kalpa begins at Convention, the foundation of the world. God and the Gods have
already been established (however, some are changed from what they were before),
and so are the Three Worlds. The Kalpa runs its course stably and correctly in
all of its events from its beginning to its end. At the end, each Kalpa is
destroyed (chiefly by Alduin, who eats the world) so the next Kalpa can be born.
This cycle is a constant wheel of constant rebirth, until the wheel itself
cracks apart on the Last Kalpa. In Hinduism, this cycle (along with time) is
also seen as a wheel. Those that attain Moksha (CHIM) can free themselves from
this cycle of rebirth.

The Et’Ada are the Mahadevas, the most powerful of the gods. The Et’Ada includes
both the Daedric Princes, the Nine Divines, Magnus, the Magne-Ge, Y’ffre, and
Lorkhan. Like the Mahadevas of Hinduism, they are neither male or female;
existing as beings that were created and are embodied as perfect. However, each
of the Et’Ada are typically perceived by – and often take on – the forms of
either male or female avatars. Mephala takes on the form of a Hermaphrodite,
showing that hir is neither male, female, or none, but all of them at once;
Boethiah switches forth from being a male and a female all the time. The Devas
are the Ada (Morihaus; Pelinal; Cultural Gods; Lesser Daedra), exceptionally
strong beings that are under the authority of the Mahadevas. Each of these
spirits are extensions of the Godhead within the Dream, as are all of the mortal
races that reside on Tamriel and the other continents.

The Triad of Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva equates with Anu, Nir, and Padomay and
how they form a Supreme Being. Anu (Brahma) is the Creator; he is the one who
creates the Dream and therefore creates the universe. Nir (Vishnu) is the
Preserver; she gave birth to the Twelve Worlds of Creations, which would
eventually go on to become the plane(t) Nirn, helping stabilize the Dream.
Padomay (Shiva) is the Destroyer; he was the one that killed Nir and demolished
the Twelve Worlds. However, Padomay can also be seen as the Creator as it is his
actions that result in Anu beginning the Dream.

The Triad can also be equated with Akatosh, Lorkhan, and Magnus as well. Magnus
is the Creator; he is the one that drew up the plans for Mundus. Lorkhan is the
Preserver; he has sent many avatars to walk the Mundus (Shezzarines), and at
least one of them, Tiber Septim (Buddha), has attained Moksha (CHIM). Akatosh is
the Destroyer; as his Nordic aspect Alduin he devours the world to begin the
next one. However, he is also Creator as he is also Auri-El, the beginning of
time. Akatosh and Lorkhan themselves can adhere to this triad model when one
looks at their aspects (Auri-El \[Creator\], Alkosh \[Preserver\], Alduin
\[Destroyer\]; Lorkhan \[Creator\], Shezzar \[Preserver\], Shor \[Destroyer\]).
Like in Hinduism, the gods themselves are perceived in multiple images that have
diverse personalities from one another, which we attribute to mythopoeia within
the world of The Elder Scrolls.
