---
series: NUL Entry
part: 5
title: "NUL Entry 05 {Apocrypha}"
reddit: 24iefs
author: AlyxDinas
date: 2014-05-02T02:33:19Z
hide_series: true
---

[Continued from here][0]

landfell ali-no first hit shatter forth terminus bring down spiked
substitutional minaret spark missleheinous antiground scything. thal-speculum
soldiers ru fro to and clash throng throng thrng trh trhng ggggggg. towersome
varliance foreverain down down down hit splash null gone old mary.
rabltyantifireeyeheadstare when before one or two or three(more?) now wrong or
gone or song. hightop look blind seer worm faced only standing corpustrong.
clapity pity that like nuk strike thwoooooooombwoooover. mer-ciless pop loved
forgotten no no no. whore her. refuterror negatime egg crack hist laugh.
sempeternal somersault fateth dowbt-UR. godamage overflow datattack brainshock.
whyes whyno. era error. error era. not so remantic. might be. tiiiiibeeeeer.
nullyg no ledge knawlidge know know again it tells NO. watch atten-dance
atten-shun. Tam we well.
01000001010011100100001101000101010100110101010001010010010011110101001101000011010110010101010001001000010001010011101000100000010011010100000101001110.
fizzle fizzle zzaatasatatatatatataaaaaaahhhhhhhh silence. bubble bubble gluuurgh
rugh. new middling. awe fall. tall lost. draggone. filter flash grand scene his
story play actors arrive. princes many army lead to goldskin. wire witch summon
high and all to sundbird flee. eet. nothing write nothing straight all
turnoverend runrunrunrunrunrunrunenginefun. jillion on jillion cuts all bleed
leak kent fix. time(?)knot. bird fly all nugatory battle strong body weak. looks
and abrog looks and deny looks and inval looks and conta clash. pale in all and
sigh rust allmylax and maninmarker she go wrath and tiny mackerel alongside lord
of cans. tumbledown mountain tumbledown tower tumbledown mane and
tickyickytocktocktocktock. break take mine. allwild the worm face sea and
dazespare numid rear scream. takes second to go to second. ashman to soulburst
ashland. never learn flowkin. doomsay of doomday.

[Continued here][1]

[0]: ./24fm5c
[1]: ./24jyka.md
