---
title: Excerpt from “The Mistress’s Awakened”
reddit: 24ll9t
author: ASAMANNAMMEDNIGEL
date: 2014-05-03T04:15:23Z
---

> Excerpt from a badly damaged book, floating in the waters of lake Popad, whose
> leather cover had the front of a human skull pressed into the cover, Titled
> “The Mistress’s Awakened”

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

## CHAPTER IV - OUR MISTRESS’S TEACHINGS

These are the words that some say will show you the world:

I AM AND I AM ALL ARE WE.

Our Mistress assures us this is a lie! Comforting words, to coddle the ignorant
and blind.

These, these are the true words, whispered by Our Mistress into our ear:

WE ARE ONE, AND WE ARE ALL ALONE

Even now, We know the fear these words instills in you. That is the truth! The
Lover is dead, And the Dreamer sleeps, alone, wrapping himself in his own
forgetful dreams for comfort. But he knows, and so our Mistress knows. And our
Mistress reminds us, taking our falsehoods, and replacing them with truth. To
some, the truth is frightening, because the truth promises pain. But she does
this for our benefit, because it is only through the pain of truth that we can
shed our false skins and truly be free from the shackles of mortality.

From this, We derive all of Our Mistress’s Teachings:

- This world, is a nightmare. The ignorant say it is a dream, the blind will
  tell you it is reality, but truly, it is a nightmare. Our Mistress assures us.

- It is only through realizing the pain and fear inflicted upon us by the
  nightmare, that the blind may see, the ignorant learn the truth, and we shed
  our mortal skins, rising beyond the nightmare. Our Mistress assures us.

- Our memories are lies until the moment we realize them to be. The mewling
  babes that are the ignorant and blind cling to them as though they were teats,
  but the Awakened of Our Mistress, through pain and fear, strips us of these
  lies, and fills us with the knowledge of the true nightmare. Our Mistress
  assures us.

**Learn these tenets, and you will be Awakened, and will see what Our Mistress
has to offer.**
