---
title:
  Mythopoeic Effects on The Races of Tamriel, Hero Gods, Incarnations, and AEs
reddit: 24o41r
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2014-05-04T03:25:07Z
---

There has been a long standing question of why the various races of Tamriel have
the archetypes they do-the smooth talking Imperials, the Redguard Swordsmen, the
Nordic Warriors, and the other racial archetypes. Some of this can be attributed
to culture and history, but there may be more to it than that.

MareloRyan’s recent theory on AEs and turokman’s suggestion on the Stone of Snow
Throat might provide a deeper, more metaphysical answer.

One very bizarre thing about Tamriel is that the nations inhabiting it don’t
change that much. Sure, there is the worship of the Nine Divines and other
various cultural changes caused by the Empire, but the fundamentals stick
around. The Nords have always been brutish warriors. The Redguards have always
been expert swordsmen. The Khajiit have always been drug addicted thieves. Why
is this? The nations of real life Earth have changed significantly over the
course of history in comparison. What keeps the cultures of Tamriel the way they
are?

The answer may be in AEs and souls.

Look at the nations whose underlying culture has changed the least- The
Redguards, the Nords, the Altmer, and the Khajiit. The others I will cover in
just a moment. What is the common denominator?

They each have a Hero God. The Redguards had a whole host of them, ranging from
Leki to Frandar Hunding. The Nords venerate Shor. The Altmer, likewise, worship
Auriel. The Khajiit had the Mane. All of these cultures hold these heroes in
high regard.

With so many people having so much faith in their culture’s hero, this would
cause a mythopoeic effect. This mythopoeic effect provides members of that race
inclinations towards certain skills, giving a natural talent towards them.

This mythopoeic effect is tied to their AEs. The more strongly these cultures
believe in their Hero Gods, the more powerful their affinity becomes.

I’ll use the Nords as an example. The Nords revered Shor. Even though he died,
he lives on in their hearts and minds. When the Nords revered Shor and their
totem gods the most, they became epic warriors with many Tongues. When they
forgot about Shor, they grew soft under the security of the Empire. Likewise,
they grew strong again when rallied under the Stormcloak banner, a banner
dedicated to Talos who is Lorkhan who is Shor.

There are of course other factors involved in that. Paarthunax and Kyne
certainly enabled the Nords to Shout. But I don’t think it is a coincidence that
the warriors in the Dragon rebellion were able to learn the Thu’um so quickly.
Think about how long it typically takes to learn a single shout. Now remember
that some Tongues by the period of the Dragon rebellion knew more than one. It
wouldn’t be feasible to learn Shouts that quickly, especially when under the
tyrannical rule of the Dragon Cult. Having a mythopoeic affinity to Shouting,
however, would likely help the process.

This also helps explain why the cultures of Tamriel haven’t shifted that much. I
think the Dreamsleeve is not 100% effective at removing AEs from souls. As a
result, some of the previous AE gets shoved back into the place where it came
from-reverence for Shor to Skyrim, pride in the Hoon Ding to Hammerfell, longing
for Aldmeris to the Summerset Isles. This reinforces the existing culture so
that it does not break apart as easily as it would in real life. The same
beliefs are literally passed down from generation to generation.

This is not a perfect system, however. The belief can die and the strength of
the mythopoeic effect can wane as a result. Forgetting about Shor means no one
cares about learning the Thu’um anymore, and thus the mythopoeic effect is
weakened. The Cyrodilic Empires have had this effect several times, most
strongly under the Third Empire.

But let’s take it even further than that. Suppose that people strongly believed
that one day, their great hero would be reborn, as is the case with the
Nerevarine. So many people believe it that as they die and their AE enters the
Dreamsleeve, it may connect with other similar AEs. Eventually this snowballs
and the belief shapes the AE as it is coming out of the Dreamsleeve and into a
new person. The AE has been reinforced by belief so much that it is nearly
identical to that belief, and thus you have an incarnation.

Sometimes the AE may not be fully formed, and it only has the potential to be an
incarnation. This is my theory for the Nerevarine. The Nerevarine had a
significant portion of Nerevar’s AE, but not enough. Therefore he had to
complete the trials to complete his AE’s shift to Nerevar’s, thus becoming the
Nerevarine.

Such is the case with all incarnations. Things start to get bad, and people
begin praying that their hero will come back. The Empire takes over Stros M’kai
and people start praying under their breath for the Hoon Ding to save them.
Dagoth Ur is on the brink of victory and the people start believing the
Nerevarine will return. The Nords see the Thalmor taking over the world and pray
that Shor or Talos will come and save them.

Alone, these prayers are empty. Together, they add up. It starts to affect the
Dreamsleeve, and the Dreamsleeve begins to produce an AE according to the
people’s prayers.

The pattern is clear. People grow desperate, they pray or create prophecies, and
then they believe in those prophecies so strongly that mythopoeia produces a
Hero with a myth associated with that culture.

This effect should not be considered the sole reason why racial cultures are the
way they are, nor the only reason why someone behaves a certain way. It is one
of the many factors that help determine who someone is or how they will act.
However, I believe it is a factor, and shouldn’t be ignored.

What about the other races? They are a special case. The Bosmer had Y’ffre to
create their mythic presence. The Green Pact likely has a significant effect on
their AEs. The Orcs were followers of Trinimac, so when his AE changed, so did
theirs. This is strong evidence that ties to a Hero God have effects on
followers, so it is plausible that worshippers of Leki are better swordsmen as
an example.

The Dunmer once more are the odd man out. They didn’t have a Hero God to speak
of, since they became devout Daedra worshippers. The closest thing they have is
Nerevar Moon-And-Star, but for all his strength, he was still mortal. Most of
them probably don’t go to the Dreamsleeve either, considering that their souls
would be gathered by their Daedric masters. Despite this, they have one of the
most resilient cultures in Tamrielic history. Why is this? The primary reason is
ALMSIVI. These three gods served as a cultural center point for thousands of
years. This extra reinforcement allowed Dunmer culture to survive their fall on
pure cultural inertia.

However, we see that even this is not as effective as the Hero God Belief AE
system is through C0DA. The Dunmer culture is all but destroyed by the time they
settle on Masser.

There are many factors to take into account when studying why Tamriel’s cultures
are the way they are, but it likely isn’t purely a matter of history. There are
metaphysical reasons for why things are. Hero Gods provide a metaphysical
measure of cultural stability in Tamrielic cultures by passing shared beliefs
down through the Dreamsleeve AE system. In addition to this, they pass down
skills to their culture and set the framework for a Hero to come. AEs, the
Dreamsleeve, and Hero Gods are metaphysics more intertwined with history than we
might think.
