---
title: Dishonor, Deceit, and Duplicity
reddit: 24vt3h
author: Anonymous_Mononymous
date: 2014-05-06T18:18:58Z
---

_Mephala and Azura are the twin gates of tradition and Boethiah is the secret
flame._

The armor of Trinimac was considered impregnable in his life, it was infamous
among the forces of Shor for having the ability to absorb or deflect a great
number of killing blows from all sides. Trinimac’s responsibility to Auri-El was
to maintain the unity of the Old Ehlnofey by defeating her enemies and
preventing any wayward sects from attempting to break away. He acted as a
paragon of honor, unassailable and unyielding. The only sign of a chink in his
armor was his fanatical devotion to the Eight. When not serving in the thick of
battle, Trinimac was often given to pious outbursts, setting out on pilgrimages
or speaking to crowds of followers about how to best worship the Divines. He
used his heroic status to cement the worship of the Eight throughout the land.
It was on one of these pilgrimages that Boethiah crossed his path, and the two
of them crossed blades. For a long time the two sparred back and forth, but the
Prince of Plots was only toying with him for she had known about his achilles
heel from the start. When the duel became tiresome, Boethiah opened wide her
terrible maw and crushed the fabled armor in twain. Trinimac could not be
considered dead, however, until his societal armor had been rent asunder as
well.

Word of Trinimac’s pilgrimage had spread fast, and people travelled from all
over the nearby lands to hear him speak about the Divines. When a road-worn
traveller arrived wearing Trinimac’s armor speaking in Trinimac’s voice, the
crowd anxiously gathered in to hear the sermon. It started much the same as the
rest, but there was a poisonous barb to this one, apparent to everyone who heard
it, which made all the lies and exaggerations stand out like torches in the
night. As the sermon progressed, people became so disgusted with themselves,
their very culture, that they began vomiting and moaning. Only after the moons
had climbed high into the night sky did Boethiah reveal herself. Still speaking
in Trinimac’s voice, she revealed to the onlooking crowd the weakness and
fragility of the paper armor of honor. Finally finished with her speaking, she
excreted the badly digested knight before the onlooking crowd. No witness walked
away from that scene unchanged. The ones who adopted the philosophy of dishonor
fled in exile to Dwemereth. The ones who tried to keep their philosophy of honor
still could not remain in Old Ehlnofey. They had learned too much, and the
stench of knowledge was unpleasant to the pious multitude.

The adoption of dishonor as a virtue had extremely positive and negative effects
on Velothi society, and it wouldn’t be until the rise of the Tribunal Temple
that the negative repercussions of this cultural shift could be stemmed. With
worship of the House of Troubles running unchecked throughout the land, order
and civil society became impossible. On the other hand, the abandonment of
Daedra worship meant the renunciation of the teachings of their ancestors, an
unthinkable thing. The Tribunal Temple solved this problem by building the twin
gates of tradition, deceit and duplicity, around the established church of
dishonor. Thus the way of the ancestors was preserved but order was maintained
throughout the land.
