---
title: Interrogation Transcript - The Dream Speaker
reddit: 24vw7q
author: ASAMANNAMMEDNIGEL
date: 2014-05-06T18:49:30Z
---

> Transcript from the interrogation of a Vaermina Cultist, who goes by the title
> of “The Dream-Speaker” (DS). The Interogatting Legate is an Argonian by the
> name of Swims-with-steel (SWS).

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

_Date - \[REDACTED\], Location - Cheydinhal, \[REDACTED\]._

**SWS:** What is your name, imperial?

**DS:** I have given that to the Mistress. In return, she has given me the title
of Dream-Speaker, and charged me with speaking to the Ignorant and Blind.

**SWS:** I repeat, what is your name?

**DS:** I have none to give.

**SWS:** You shall be refered to as the Dream-Speaker then. Where are you from?

**DS:** That knowledge has also been given to the Mistress. The Dream-Speaker's
home, however, is where his Mistress resides.

_The Interogator sighs_

**SWS:** You are going to be difficult aren’t you. Who is this mistress of
your's, and where does SHE live then?

_DS laughs maniacly for a moment, seemingly at the expense of the Interogator,
after a moment, he calms down._

**DS:** I apologize. I forget that you are both ignorant and blind, argonian
dreamer. The Mistress, is Vaermina, and she resides in Oblivion.

_The interogator shifts in his seat._

**SWS:** So, you are a Daedric Cultist.

**DS:** That is one flawed way of many to say that which I am. My follower's and
I do not belong to a cult. A cult implies lies. We spread truth. I suspect that
will be lost on you, ignorant one. And My Mistress is no Petty Daedra, she is
the queen of Quagmire, the matron of Nighmares, The Dreamer's Fear. And I am her
voice here in the Mundus.

**SWS:** Fine. Continuing on… What do you know of the Sleeping Sickness?

_DS beams a wide smile_

**DS:** So that is the lovely name you have given your salvation. Fitting I
suppose, though it has very little to do with the Taskmaster… Regardless. What
do I know of it? Everything! I helped create it. I provided part of the
knowledge to our mistress in her creation of a concoction. And when it was
ready, I gave it to the inn keeper, telling him it was a bottle of the best wine
he would ever drink. He then sold it to his patrons. They did the rest of the
work.

**SWS:** You understand you have just admitted to releasing an epidemic upon
Cheydinhal, correct?

**DS:** An epidemic? You are also deaf, it seems, ignorant and blind one. This
is not an epidemic. I told you, the Taskmaster is not involved. This, this was
salvation. You live with your eyes closed, blind lizard. This “Sleeping
Sickness” will open your eyes, and you will see the world for the nightmare it
truly is.

**SWS:** You have not answered the question, Daedra Worshipper.

_DS's eyes thin, seemingly in anger_

**DS:** YES! Yes. The Awakened have delivered you to salvation, by means of The
Mistresses' Caress. Cheydinhal is the first, of many.

**SWS:** Of Many? Your cult plans to attack other cities?

_DS Laugh's maniacly again_

**DS:** The blind-deaf lizard is an insightful one! Not just the cities.
Everyone. We will all get salvation lizard. Vaermina will wake us screaming in
the night.

**SWS:** When and where?

**DS:** I am done speaking to you, Swims-with-steel.

**SWS:** How, how do you know my name?

**DS:** Your ignorance is showing again, lizard. Didn’t drink enough of the Hist
juice eh? My Mistress grants many insights, in reward for devout service. Even
now, she whispers to me your secrets, your fears. Not that she needs to. I can
see them cling to you like flies on shit, lizard. The Hist hunts you lizard.
You cannot escape it.

_SWS is becoming increasingly agitated at DS's words._

**SWS:** STOP! THIS INSTANT. ANSWER MY QUESTIONS!

_DS smiles calmly._

**DS:** I told you, I am done. The Hist is not, though, they will find you, and
kill you, Swims-with-steel. Not before they kill her though. Yes, you know who I
am talking about. She will lie before you in a pool of her own blood, and then
the Shadowscales will kill you. You know it to be true. You can’t run from the
truth, Swims-with-steel.

_SWS is growing hysterical_

**SWS:** TAKE HIM! GUARDS! TAKE HIM!

_DS Stands_

**DS:** YOU WILL BE ALONE LIZARD, AND THEN YOU WILL DIE.

_DS begins to leak a thick purple gas from his mouth, nose and eyes._

**DS:** ENJOY YOUR SALVATION LIZARD!

_DS fires a blast of fire into the northern wall, blowing a hole in it. The
purple fog continues to leak out of all of his orifices. SWS has drawn his
shortsword and backed into a corner. The door to the interogattion room flies
open as four warded battlemages enter the room. Two grab SWS and pull him out of
the room. DS, Meanwhile has stepped out of the interogation room through his new
exit, and stands outside, under the light of Masser and Secunda, the purple fog
gathering at his feet. As the battlemages step out to meet DS, DS's form
dissolves into the fog he was spewing, and it seeps into the ground._

END OF TRANSCRIPT
