---
title: On the Dwemer, by an angry Snow Elf
reddit: 24vz0c
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2014-05-06T19:16:57Z
about: |
  I am not known here for my amazing apocrypha, but when I do write it I write
  as Lyenwen, an uncorrupted Snow Elf saved by a Dwemer Conjurer in the months
  before Numidium was activated and the Dwemer vanished. [An Atheist Anuad][0],
  [her revelations on Soul Gems][1], and [a brief story about her “capture”][2],
  are other works I have done in her voice, with different levels of feedback
  from the community. Today I present another entry from her diary.

  [0]: ./1uyjp5
  [1]: ./1vbtt1
  [2]: ./1yqinx
---

Dearest Ibthld,

My world has collapsed. Strange to say that, it was not much of a world. It was
fragile thing to begin with. I was born on the run in the aftermath of the death
of the Snow Prince. We scrabbled around the dark tundra, the land we nurtured
turning on us under the new love of the Nordic Masters.

Elves have always felt as if all of Creation was a cruel trick of Lorkhan. We
Snow Elves sought atonement in the harsh terrain of Skyrim, you Deep Elves
sought transcendence with your technology and Brass Overlords.

You taught me the [cruel secret of the Falmer degradation][0]. In reading and
forcing my dull hunter’s mind to understand the esoteric truth of Dwemer logic,
in learning Dwemer secrets I unlocked the secrets to Elven nature.

All Mer were born into a Collective. Before Kynareth breathed words into our
throats so we could speak our intentions, we shared our minds and were one with
each other and with our ancestor-Gods. We shared not only our thoughts, but a
collective AE, will and understanding of the world and the Aurbis.

As Time became linear and rational, Mer began to lose the Collective. It caused
great distress, strife and dissent among the Aldmeri ancestors. Your people left
first, cultivating your collective mind through magickal, alchemical and
meditative means. Who would become the Altmer used strict conformity and a
certain asceticism to prevent further loss of “collectivity”. They imposed an
external sameness hoping it would echo internally.

The Chimer abandoned the idea of this Collective under the guidance of Boethiah.
Individuals were instead taught to bond with one another through shared values,
bonds of love, family, filial piety and devotion to their spiritual leadersip.

And we Snow Elves, before our degradation, could channel our will and love into
the Snow Prince, our chamption. When our bond with him was broken by a
grief-stricken child, we reeled with shock and our gift went latent.

You Dwemer used your fungus to transform my people into a useful slave caste.
You also unwittingly awakened and enhanced the Falmer Collective mind. Since the
Dawn times, there was a truly unified collective mind of Mer was re-established
in Tamriel. Not only were they reawakened as a whole, they were able to resist
the Call of Walk-Brass, despite their bond and servitude to the Dwemer.

Yes my love, I now understand Numidium, what it meant to your people. Into the
Brass God you channeled all your petty resentments.

Were you jealous of the Velothi and their Walking Ways? Did they intimidate you
when they arrived in Dwemereth with their love and loyalty?

You refused the world, but did not realise it was more than a simple negation.
It was the destructive perversion of an angry child, a mythopoeic force so
powerful yet so twisted that while channelling and reinforcing creation, it
simultaneously undoes it. Utter chaos.

Yes, I have grown much in my life underground. I am not the barbarian raider
that fell into you, a lifetime ago.

Even Mehrunes Dagon or Molag Bal would not be so pointlessly destructive. You
said you did not need the world, you rejected its architects and planners as
out-dated, irrelevant, inconstant or cruel. But it was you and your people who
are the cruel ones, the petty ones, the fickle ones. You disguise your smallness
with scholarly integrity, scientific progress, social evolution, an escape from
a cruel and obtuse puzzle box.

But you were all hypocrites.

Where was the compassion? True understanding, not only of the world itself, but
those who live and breathe and feel in the world? A desire to help others?

Godhood, the ability to shape the world, can only be achieved through being part
of the world you are in, loving it, nurturing it, truly understanding not only
its mechanics, but the beating heart that fuels it. Everything and everyone
within it. Even the elements you find frustrating, threatening, confusing,
out-dated or dangerous.

You needed the world more than it ever needed you, and you rejected it. You
rejected the Aedra and the Daedra, and they are still here and you are not. You
were full of youthful passion and a desire for knowledge, but you lacked
leadership, direction, kindness and understanding.

Sometimes, the only way to appreciate kindness is to feel its utter lack, so you
can mature and learn to understand it’s importance.

In a dream, words came to be, mysterious words like a prophecy form far away,
echoing Chimeri in my dreams, _the birth of God from the netchiman’s wife is the
abortion of kindness from love._

This seems important but I cannot fully understand why.

I am tired, Ibthld, so tired of the fear. I must rest, I will write more later.

Love, Lyenwen

[0]: ./1vbtt1
