---
title: Endgames
subtitle: The Final Destiny of Anuic and Padomaic Philosophies
reddit: 24x4l9
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2014-05-07T02:36:12Z
---

We have had a sudden outpouring of well written texts detailing Velothi beliefs
and the Padomaic ways of the Aurbis. It is with this in mind that I write to
defend the Anuic ways and provide a counter to the philosophy of Padhome.

First, it is necessary to understand the nature of this duality. The central
conflict of the Elder Scrolls universe is between the Anuic and Padomaic
philosophies. The battlefield of this duel is the Mundus. While both
philosophies desire the same thing, they go about it in very different ways.

Both sides agree that escaping the Material Prison is the penultimate goal. This
requires changing your AE’s subgradient, but the question is which way to go.

Padomaics argue that the only way forward is downward. Their endgame is
Amaranth, reaching the final subgradient below mortal death. Reaching that
subgradient therefore requires mortality as a motivating force, and so they are
in favor of the Mundus existing.

Anuics do not agree with this. The Anuics believe that the proper way to advance
is not through going further down the subgradients, but to rise up them. To
purposely fall even further than they have already fallen is folly. Therefore,
mortality is not a motivating force but an obstacle. It is something to escape
at all costs.

Padomaic philosophy is at first glance very enticing. It offers authority and
power through CHIM and Amaranth. Should one succeed, it would offer absolute
freedom to do whatever one desires. A whole world of You, with yourself as your
god. The cost of this, however, is often overlooked. It requires crushing
isolation and the risks are much higher. Should CHIM or Amaranth fail, the user
would be utterly destroyed. Even if one succeeded, he would be alone for all
time, with only figments of his imagination to comfort him-figments that likely
aren’t even aware of his existence. Is this liberty? What liberty is worth
sacrificing your connection to others for the sake of yourself? Such a goal is
selfish. It denies the value of others for the exaltation your own traits. Even
those supposedly “reborn” in the new Dream would be subjugated to your own will,
an act of tyranny of the highest order. Is it any wonder that Vivec learned of
CHIM through the King of Rape? The ways of Padhome are inherently self
destructive, masquerading as salvation.

The ways of Anu, however, hold promise not just for one but for all. Anu is
Everything. To be Everything means to hold infinite potential, an unlimited mine
to be tapped to fuel the creation of a glorious future. Anuic philosophy is not
just about the self, but about the relation of the self to others. It is
selfless and always thinking about how the mutual relationship of everything can
be structured for the good instead of the bad. It raises up the righteous and
condemns the wicked. There is no better an example of this than The Old Ways of
the Psijics, who remember that raising up the righteous and destroying the
wicked helps everyone step towards the way of good thinking. When the All
chooses to work together, the wonders can be achieved.

Padomaic philosophy is about tightening your AE, so you are contained and
existent as you face the truth of the Dream. By facing this truth unscathed,
they walk away with the power to self-determine, but this leads to a greater ego
and as a result more selfish actions. The Padomaic paths to power are ruinous.

On the contrary, Anuic philosophy loosens the AE so one is closer to Everything
than Nothing. Therefore the process of becoming a Hero is an inherently Anuic
activity. Whoever the Hero was before is forgotten. In exchange, this identity
is replaced by the Myth the Hero weaves. Who is to say the Name of the
Nerevarine? Who is to say the Name of the CoC? Who is to say the Name of The
Last Dragonborn? They forsook their names and became closer to Everything,
because they could be Anything. Is there not power in that? The counter of this
is CHIM, which imposes Will on the universe. Why restrict someone else with your
orders? The path of the Hero allows self-determination while not restricting the
freedom of others in the process.

Therefore, the final destiny of Anuic philosophy must be similar in nature. It
must be freedom for All, not just true freedom for one and a facsimile for the
rest. Everyone must be able to choose their destiny, no matter the choices of
others. They also must be able to work together to create A New destiny if they
so desire. C0DA is the Endgame for the Anuics-a World of Everything. With Time
fractured and the possibilities endless, it should be an Anuic paradise.
Anything can be true.

The two Endgames reflect the alignments they are named after. Amaranth, for all
of its declared freedom, is still more limit than it is freedom. C0DA is true
freedom-the freedom of creation for the many and not just the few.
