---
series: A Model of the Godhead and its Contents
part: 5
title: Addendum II
subtitle: Aetherius as the Afterlife
reddit: 250750
author: MareloRyan
date: 2014-05-08T01:43:19Z
---

[Part I][0]

[Part II][1]

[Part III][2]

[Addendum I][3]

Once again, this is a minor addendum to my model, only intended to briefly
explore some interesting ideas in its context.

---

In Part III and Addendum I, I discussed the Dreamsleeve and the senses in which
it might "recycle" AE, but I did so without special regard to the existence of
afterlives like Sovngarde and the Far Shores. /u/Nigh-thawks has recently
[brought to my attention][4] the firm positioning by ESO of afterlives within
Aetherius, and I think there's potential here for yet more symbolism
shenanigans.

From Addendum I:

> The oceans are still the oceans, but, through their symbolic nature, they can
> serve as gateways to higher-order concepts, such as the Dreamsleeve, Oblivion
> in general, or Mora in particular. It all depends on how you interpret them,
> and whether you have the mastery or inherent nature required to feel the
> connections.

Further, we also know that Aetherius is outside Oblivion, at the edge of the
Aurbis, forming the rim of the Wheel.

So if the AE of the departed pass through the oceans to be incorporated into
Memory and meet up with the Dreamsleeve, perhaps they don't just _stop_ in the
Dreamsleeve and get torn apart into their component information-parts. Instead,
consider the dead AE as a memospore. It gets launched out into the Dreamsleeve,
and if there's a portion of the Aurbis that will receive them, it homes in on
it, gets pulled back _out_ of the Dreamsleeve. Such portions could be either the
realms of the Princes or the realms of Aetherius, of which I believe only the
Far Shores and Sovngarde have been explicitly named thus far. (If there is no
such receiving portion, well... back to the ol' white noise for you, little AE.
Hope you [mastered Will][5], because that's the only way you'll survive out
there.)

So there are the bare mechanics laid out, but what about the symbolism? How does
it fit in with the structure of the greater Godhead?

As quoted before:

> What's across the Godhead from Anu? Other Amaranths. What's across Oblivion
> from Mundus? Other realms, the Princes. What's across the oceans from Tamriel?
> Other continents.

The Princes can be taken as symbols of other Amaranths, and so, too, can the
realms of Aetherius. The passage of the AE through the oceans, through the
Dreamsleeve, to end up at new, symbolically aligned realms? Sounds familiar!

> Imagine yourself as a Trans-Amaranth traveler, and the continental symbols as
> giant I/O ports, matched up by their symbolic similarity. You're sailing for a
> distant port, more distant than anyone who doesn't understand the Godhead
> could realize. But what does the ocean symbolize? The Void between Amaranths,
> the Dreamsleeve. Crossing the ocean is integral to the process of
> Trans-Amaranth travel, because it symbolizes crossing the Dreamsleeve, just as
> the points of departure and arrival, the continents, symbolize the Amaranths.

Seems to me, then, that the passage of the mortal AE into the various realms of
Aetherius and Oblivion is a symbol of Trans-Amaranth travel.

Which raises a question: Why are there realms which receive mortals in Aetherius
to begin with? They can't be the plane(t)s of the Aedra, not really. Those are
dead, and inextricably tied to Mundus. They're not _in_ Aetherius. But we do
know about [some beings that are][6]. So here's what I suggest: Magnus and the
Magna-Ge have constructed these realms within Aetherius. Their motivations could
be one, or both, of two options: 1. They regret and mourn the fates of mortal AE
without such destinations, the AE-without-Will torn apart by the noise; 2. They
want to complete the symbolism of the Aurbis as much as they can, because they
have come to believe in Lorkhan's project after the events of the Dawn.

This is bolstered, I think, by the presence of both strange and (relatively)
familiar spirits within Aetherius. On the one hand, who the hell is Thermallélé?
On the other, Merid and Daubella seem pretty obvious. But they're also
different. (In the case of Merid, who was cast out of Aetherius into Oblivion,
her role was different even though she remains the same spirit; consider her a
blurry reflection of Kynareth, perhaps.) This is because Amaranths who depart
the Aurbis, too, will be at once strange and familiar, new interpretations of
Memory. (And I think it's pretty obvious, too, that the Magna-Ge fled from the
"trap" of mortality, just as Amaranths conquer death and depart from Ald-Anu.)
As for the motivations, well:

> [I'm sorry I left, but hey, I'm still right up here.][7]

So why the difference between the Magna-Ge and the Princes? If the Magna-Ge are
symbols of Amaranths originating from Ald-Anu, then the Princes would be symbols
of Amaranths who did _not_ originate from Ald-Anu. Predecessors, or
parallel-but-independent. Beings who insist that, no, really, Mundus isn't all
that, they have other concerns, just as some Amaranths, if given voices, might
insist that Ald-Anu isn't all that, but merely part of a larger tapestry. Yet
the Princes, for all their protestation, still meddle in Mundus' affairs, which
makes me wonder whether other Amaranths have likewise brushed up against
Ald-Anu, which fall outside of its progenitor(s) and progeny. It seems possible,
to me. Symbolism can happen by accident, after all, and those connections can
still be taken seriously.

I will further suggest that Sovngarde's presence indicates that Lorkhan, as the
Void Ghost, [also has access to Aetherius][8], slinking in by taking the form of
the unstar Serpent constellation. Note the following description of the Serpent
from [Sermon 33][9], emphasis mine:

> 'I am born of golden wisdom and powers that should have forever been unalike!
> With this nature I am invited into the **Hidden Heaven**!'
>
> By which he meant **the Scaled Blanket, made of not-stars, whose number is
> thirteen**. Lie Rock became full of foolishness, **haggling with the Void
> Ghost** who hides in the religions of all men.

Perhaps Aetherius is where all botnets are, held up against the Void that is the
Dreamsleeve, intercepting suitable newcomer AE before Daubella or some other Ge
has a chance to usher them through an appropriate sign down to Mundus.

That's all for now, I think. Thanks for reading.

---

[Addendum III][10]

[0]: ./21c4yy
[1]: ./21fqmi
[2]: ./21rpsz
[3]: ./23lwi6
[4]: http://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/24xmt7/random_sheogorath_and_jyggalagfacts/chc2cxq
[5]: http://old.reddit.com/r/GodheadModel/comments/24wme2/chim_mastery_and_domain_will_and_love/
[6]: http://www.imperial-library.info/content/magne-ge-pantheon
[7]: http://www.imperial-library.info/content/michael-kirkbride-irc-qa-sessions
[8]: ./2jtcd5
[9]: http://www.imperial-library.info/content/thirty-six-lessons-vivec-sermon-thirty-three
[10]: ./269ad8
