---
series: The Ways of the Princes
part: 1
title: The Prince Called Ur
reddit: 25k1qj
author: bnmbnm0
date: 2014-05-14T18:12:50Z
about: |
  After seeing many posts asking about the personality of different Daedric
  Princes I decided to begin a series of essays about each Daedra that I can
  link to in the event a question is asked in the future, focusing on their
  personalities, based upon their Sphere and their presentation in games and
  other works. These are in no way meant to be taken literally as Lore, and are
  rather meant to show the personality; if you disagree with anything I say in
  the series I’d be happy to discuss. If you feel these need elaboration please
  ask. I’d be happy to add more.
---

## The Face of Sithis. The Mother Of Night

In the beginning was the Void, and The Spark, the Is and the Is not, and from
the Spark Auri-El became, and he laid eyes upon the Void, and he beheld Night,
the visage of Sithis, with her flowing train of the darkest colors. And from her
womb, the darkest of Voids, came forth the Daedra, and Night hid her babes in
her flowing robe, made from the Deepest Waters. And at her breasts she nursed
the Children of Darkness, she nursed them with the Milk of Undeath, the Life
Springs of Oblivion, that they may always return to her embrace. And her
children grew older and became Princes in their own right, though they always
cowed behind their mother, though they always seek the protection of Night. The
Children would peek from behind her garb, and reach into Mortality, and some
would venture from her, but would never get far, for Night is vast, and her gaze
is far reaching.

## He that Comes in the Night

The Dark Mother protects her Children and Grandchildren, she protects them from
retribution, hides them when punishment floods forth. The Night guides the Sneak
thief that steals from innocents, the Night holds the hand of the murderers, who
plunge their blades into the stomachs of children and the defenseless, the Night
kisses the lips of rapists who devour the innocence of Mortals. The spoils of
thievery are the Spoils of Darkness, the blade of the murderer is the delight of
Darkness, and the seed of rapists is the seed of Darkness.

## The Cave and the Tomb

Darkness is the warrior who stands tall, who tells Mortals to flee, to cower, to
not go any further, Darkness is a warning, a postage saying turn back all ye who
seek to stay alive, Darkness lies at the mouth of caves, shouting “Stay Back.”
Darkness is a Mother protecting her Children, and warning you to stay away from
their claws and teeth. But Darkness is a sultry woman; a temptress, begging
fools to enter her temple, begging the strong to plunder her tomb, though she
will not give up her treasures easily, and her Children are fiercely protective
of Mother.

## Thinnest Thing, Thinnest Armies

The Veil of Shade protects the man who dashes the bodies of his children and
wife, but in Darkness the mightiest of abusers is just as impotent as a child,
the Mother of Night guards both the capture, and the escaped captive, the Mother
of Night hides the predator, and the prey, She is the thin veil of Night,
splayed about across all of creation, protecting all that hide in her midst, But
she fails. She is a Mother protecting a child, but she sees every child that is
caught, every prey that fall, and every captive captured. Her delight is the
Dark things of the world, but her sadness is all the Dark things in the world.

_She is Darkness, She is Night, She is Ur, She is Mother, She is Nocturnal, Fear
Her, Reach out to Her._
