---
series: A Report on the Bloodlines of Tamriel’s Vampires
part: 3
title: A Report on the Bloodlines of Tamriel’s Vampires, Vol III
reddit: 25le63
author: Zoeyface
date: 2014-05-15T02:33:11Z
hide_series: true
---

> Celann
>
> I write this letter as I move into the more civilised Imperial province after
> a near deadly stay in Black Marsh, or more commonly referred to nowadays as
> Argonia. I cannot tell you how happy I am to leave these dank, dark marshes
> behind me. After reading [The Argonian Account][0] I knew that Argonia was a
> harsh environment, harsh environments breed harsher vampires it would seem.
>
> Despite a close call in a Whet-Fang lair I am resolved to continue on my quest
> to catalogue the vampires of Tamriel. Besides, after my stay in Argonia I have
> surely faced the foulest of the bloodlines. Tell Isran that tales of the Dawn
> Guard reforming in Skyrim have spread further than he could have hoped. I am
> currently staying in a tavern in Leyawiin, where reports of the resurgence of
> the Dawn Guard appear to have reached, as when the barkeep asked where I was
> going and the reasons for my travels as soon as I mentioned vampires he asked
> me if I was “one of them Dawn Guard fellows”.
>
> If our reputation is spreading throughout Tamriel, so soon shall the order
> itself. That conversation with the barkeep reinvigorated me, reminded me of
> why I am out here. I do hope you are passing my reports onto Isran and
> Florentius. Once the vampire threat in Skyrim is dealt >with we can spread to
> the other provinces. Hopefully this third report will help those stationed in
> Argonia, I do not envy them.
>
> Kind Regards, Ragnar Lothbrok

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

## The Vampires of Argonia

The vampires of Argonia are known as the Whet-Fang, they may be the most
despicable and horrific bloodline I have encountered yet. They are easily
identifiable as the disease strain Serratus Peryiphim leaves the skin of the
victim with a pale green hue, reminiscent of a drowned and bloated corpse. The
name Whet-Fang may derive from the other main characteristic of this strain of
vampire, the unusual teeth that set them well apart from any other bloodline.
They have multiple serrated fangs, like that of a shark, giving their bite and
even more deadly edge as they can easily tear flesh from bone with their teeth
alone.

Unfortunately I could not source any information regarding the origin of the
deadly bloodline, fear and terror was the only information I could glean from
local legends and tales of the Whet-Fang.

## Behavioral Patterns

The unique and rather obvious appearance of the Whet-Fang made it easy for me to
track them and discover their feeding ground. They seem to enjoy the more swamp
filled regions of Argonia, making their nests in the deepest part of the swamp,
often underwater if possible. Once I found a small village located rather
centrally in a large swamp (somewhere between Stormhold and Helstrom) that had
recently had a string of disappearances it was quite easy for me to locate the
nest.

I was quite lucky in that regard as the local folk lore of the town states that
these sort of disappearances happen every one hundred and sixty or so years. I
would learn later why there was such a large gap between abductions by the
Whet-Fang to my great horror. Their lair was in a cave network with several
underwater entrances, some near the village, some further away. The townsfolk
had never explored this underground network as any who dared enter the caves
would never be seen again. To me this screamed of a nest, as all tales of the
Whet-Fang had them travelling in packs or family groups.

## Abilities

The Whet-Fang are masters of illusion magic, using it to ensnare their prey,
forcing them to wander off into the swamp to be easily captured. Only one of a
stern and well guarded mind can hope to face them without becoming their thrall.
However, the most despicable ability of all is their apparent life magic,
capable of suspending life, slowing the ageing process of their prey, keeping
them in a subdued state. This is the cause for the disappearances having a
cycle. The Whet-Fang keep their victims alive so they can feed on them for
almost a hundred and sixty years!

I stumbled into the holding area of the cave, where over a dozen victims hung in
the air, suspended by nothing, bathed in an eery blue aura. The ground was
littered with the skeletons of past ages. I went to help the first of the
victims I saw, a young breton girl of about sixteen. But as I tried to pull her
down and out of the blue light her eyes snapped open shining bright yellow as
her skin turned green and pale. I had been fooled by her illusion spell! I must
have interrupted her feeding as I entered the holding area.

## Weaknesses

Fortunately I had come prepared. Like all undead, silver burns their flesh, and
as most vampires I had encountered thus far had a weakness to fire I was well
equipped with a silver dagger with layered fire enchantments. As I shoved the
blade up under her chin and into her skull the flesh of her head ignited,
bubbling away instantly leaving only bones and ash behind.

Never before have I seen such vulnerability to fire. Perhaps this is the reason
for their underwater lairs and natural affinity for swamps and other such wet
environments. Luckily I had placed fire runes on all entrances I could find to
the cave and nearly every junction within. As such, in spite of the large number
of Whet-Fang inhabiting the cave system, I was able to escape with my life.

I returned later in the day with some of the family of the abducted victims in
tow. My descriptions of their still living but captured fellows roused them into
action to help me mount a rescue. I ensured that they were all armed with fire
based destruction spells and a cure disease potion for when the mission was
done. We managed to cleanse the nest of the filthy abominations and bring the
victims back to the village with minimal casualties.

## Addendum

It took a week for the victims to awake from their induced comas, all were given
potions of disease curing and general health poultices as soon as we returned to
the village and had healers casting spells upon them until they awoke.

[0]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/argonian-account
