---
series: A Report on the Bloodlines of Tamriel’s Vampires
part: 4
title: A Report on the Bloodlines of Tamriel’s Vampires, Vol IV
reddit: 25oz7u
author: Zoeyface
date: 2014-05-16T06:19:32Z
hide_series: true
---

> Celann
>
> I hope this letter finds you quickly. I paid the courier extra for haste. I
> pen these words with fear as I have awakened the slumbering beast. I had
> thought the Whet-Fang of Argonia the most despicable of the bloodlines, and I
> was right to do so, but they are far from the most dangerous. That title sits
> squarely with the vampires of Cyrodiil.
>
> I haven’t heard much news of your activities in Skyrim of late, I have in fact
> barely heard any news at all as I have been keeping off the beaten track, but
> I implore you to cease all ongoing missions in Skyrim and deploy as many brave
> Dawn Guard as you can spare to Cyrodiil. I have uncovered the existence of an
> ancient order of vampires, more powerful than any we have faced before as they
> are undetectable until it is far too late, and they are everywhere where there
> is power to be had.
>
> I do not know how high up their infiltration goes, but I have reason to
> believe it may be as high as the elder council itself. I do not know if these
> words will reach you, nor if I will live to see my home again. I shall head
> south, I dare not specify where in this letter. But rest assured that I will
> try to send more communications as soon as I can.
>
> Ragnar Lothbrok

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

## The Vampires of Cyrodiil

While there are few tales of vampires in Cyrodiil, I can indeed confirm that
they have a heavy presence within the imperial province. The name of this
bloodline has been lost in time as with its origin. There is little to no
resources on vampires or their history within Cyrodiil in the imperial
libraries, no doubt due to interference from the vampires themselves as they are
well organised and very interested in keeping their existence a secret.

They call themselves “The Cyrodiil Vampyrum Order” or just The Order for short.
This bloodline is one of the more unique diversions due mostly to the
interference of a Daedric Prince other than Molag Bal; Clavicus Vile. While The
Order clearly originated from some brutal event perpetrated by Molag Bal, who
they venerate for their birth, The Order also offers allegiance to Clavicus Vile
for giving them the ability to blend into society without suspicion. How Vile
adapted this particular strain of Porphyric Hemophilia is unclear, but his
meddling has made these vampires all the more deadly.

## Behaviour

The vampires of Cyrodiil are highly secretive, doing their upmost to hide their
very existence. I only discovered them when my suspicions about Aquilas Maximus,
a noble of the city, asking about my research led me to follow him at night on a
whim. I saw him feed on a sleeping beggar in the back alleys of the temple
plaza, and delicately give the unconscious woman a potion when he was done. I am
convinced it was a potion of cure disease given to stop vampires from outside
the order being created during a feeding. An unchecked vampire populace would no
doubt bring vampire hunters into Cyrodiil, something The Order certainly does
not want.

The following night, while he was out, I broke into his home and searched the
place. While nothing was amiss in the main living areas of the home, I noticed
that his bedchamber barely looked lived in at all. When I went into his basement
however, I found his true den. I also found a [manifesto][0] originating from
The Order, it was upon reading this that I realised the danger. While it is
dated from the third era, I can assure you that The Order is still prospering
within Cyrodiil.

## The Cyrodiil Vampyrum Order

The note I found describes an ancient order of vampires that have infiltrated
the high echelons of society in a bid for power and influence. The thought of
the high politics of Cyrodiil being under the sway of such abominations is a
terrifying one indeed. The Order seems to follow the doctrines of bureaucracy,
politics and structure that have allowed the imperials to flourish throughout
the ages. This too allows for The Order to flourish as no other vampire
bloodline is present in Cyrodiil barring a few feral vampires living in caves.

They spurn other vampiric bloodlines, proclaiming them to be barbaric animals.
They do however have a grudging respect for the Whet-Fang and the Glenmoril Wyrd
of High Rock. Their edicts include the suppression of belief in vampires as a
whole and above all the preservation of the secrecy of their order. It is
unclear if their lust for power is a direct result of the meddling of Clavicus
Vile, or if Vile simply gave them the ability to blend in with others and the
hunger from power developed quickly after.

## Abilities and Weaknesses

Their most prominent ability, as already mentioned is the lack of vampiric
features when they are well fed. The book [Immortal Blood][1] seems to indicate
that they can revert back to the more common gaunt, red eyed figures we are more
familiar with when they do not feed as the author of the book claims to have
done so in order to reveal his true nature to Morvath. The fact that Morvath did
not pick up on the vampiric nature of the priest before then clearly shows that
it was a member of The Order and thus able to deceive even an experienced
vampire hunter.

As I found out to my delight, they have very little in the way of physical
strength, as when Aquilas returned home to find me rummaging through his
belongings he immediately attacked me. My trusted flame enchanted silver dagger
and fire rune combination quickly dispatched him. Also, as suggested in the
manifesto I found, they are vulnerable to sunlight.

## Political Sway

However, as I write these words I am on the run from the law. The most dangerous
thing about The Order is how long it has gone unchecked. Soon after I killed
Aquilas, I was approached by the imperial guard and asked to follow them back to
the White Gold Tower. By now I was highly wary of being intercepted by The Order
and asked to see the missive summoning me. To my horror the smug guard preceded
to flaunt an arrest warrant from the Elder Council itself ordering for my
immediate capture. Fortunately I was near the outskirts of the city and was able
to slip away from the guard and sneak out of the city by swimming from the docks
to the nearest bridge across Lake Rumare. However I do not know if I will ever
be able to visit the Imperial City, or even Cyrodiil, ever again. I expect that
I shall be hunted down for knowing too much and attempting to spread my newfound
knowledge of The Order. My only consolation is that my actions may one day bring
their downfall.

[0]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/manifesto-cyrodiil-vampyrum
[1]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/immortal-blood
