---
series: Mission Akatouch
part: 5
title: Captain’s Log, Day 6, Cycle A
reddit: 25pu04
author: Jaridase_Zasmyocl
date: 2014-05-16T15:16:08Z
---

3E20

Day 6, Cycle A

Something is out there. I can not say it in any other way. Due to the rotating
observation shifts, I was next for the night cycle. I was to replace, and it
was he who saw it first.

It cannot be described as an actual object of any sort; even reviewing our
memories serves no purpose. It was but a shadow, and it looked, for all intents
and purposes, like a portion of tube, bent to curve around the center of the
Mundus. A graph on a mathematical equation, is the best description I can give
it. It seemed to fade from existence into points of stars even as we watched.
and I could only exchange glances of fear and wonder.

He-Who-Reads suggests that we witnessed the after effects of some event in
Aetherius, pressing against the divide between it and the Mundane Realm. Llevan
proposes a bending of space by the passing of some unseen body, which
considering that we only saw the object by the way it became star points, is a
possibility.

and I have our doubts. The fear we felt was all too real - though I admit, it
may have just been an existential crisis upon seeing something so monumentally
huge. He brought up the belief system of the Khajit again. If we are beyond the
Lunar Lattice, then we would be at the mercy of any “Ahnurr” like entity. The
thought is terrifying.

We may have witnessed a passing of the Serpent constellation. This thought is
the most calming and meshes with Llevan’s suggestion, but I must confer with my
colleagues at the Orrery. Until then, I have kept the memory out of both and I.

Divines protect us.

Signed,
