---
title: Erasing the Past
reddit: 25qd5k
author: Luinithil
date: 2014-05-16T18:37:11Z
---

> ### Index Librorum Prohibitorum Imperatum Tamrielis 4E 175
>
> #### Item 1008
>
> Cerwen Ilötèania, _Lux draconis_

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

\[The following are loose pages of a decrepit manuscript, partly torn and burnt
in some places but still decipherable.\]

## Foreword to the Combined Edition of _Dragon’s Light_, 4E 115

This is and has always been, first and foremost, a work of personal interest. In
a real sense, I would not be here, had the Crisis never occurred. My father, an
Altmeri minor noble, fled the ruins of the Crystal Tower and the rising threat
of the Thalmor in Summerset, soon after the end of the Oblivion Crisis in 3E
433, or 4E 1, whichever dating one prefers. He ended up in the Imperial City,
where he met my Breton mother. My mother lost all her kinfolk in the invasion,
and that, too was how she ended up travelling to the City.

I grew to adulthood haunted by the memory of the Oblivion Crisis, hearing of the
terrors of the daedric hordes. I still remember the scars of blood and fire on
the walls of the City, left untouched for many years as people struggled to
rebuild, and how my poor father could not speak of what he had witnessed without
trembling, and how he never spoke of Emperor-saint Martin without the highest
inflections of respect, nay, reverence.

As I sit here, writing these words, it so happens to be the 110th Festival of
Dragon’s Light, which memorialises the sacrifice of the Lost Emperor, Saint
Martin. Those of the Imperial City hold his memory in particular reverence, and
the Nibenean tendency to celebrate important events and people with festival
finds here its fullest expression. Now a massive and colourful affair, the
Festival begins with the citizens going into ritual mourning the night before.
All work ceases in the afternoon of the eve of the Festival, and the citizens
symbolically lock and barricade themselves in their homes, in remembrance of the
daedra invading and the brutalities that occurred. The only sounds to be heard
are the church bells tolling. No fires except the ones at the White-Gold Tower
and the rebuilt Temple of the One are allowed during the night. Then on the day
itself after remembrances before first light, thanks is given to Akatosh and
Talos, for the provision of Martin’s sacrifice and the saving of the City: the
first light of dawn marks the start of a day long frenzy of celebration.

See now the laughter and gaiety on show today by the common city folk! I still
remember when the Festival was a time for reflection, for sobriety and
thanksgiving for our continued existence, when it was still known as the Day of
Commemoration. Festivals are by their nature exuberant outpourings of joy and
goodwill, and yet – sometimes I must fear that the true significance of these
celebrations has already been lost. We are a generation of leaves that know not
the trees we sprung from. In my own small way, I hope to pass on something of
what those times were like… \[text smudged into illegibilty\]

For those wishing to gain a firm grounding in the reality behind the gloss of
story in this volume: The life of Uriel VII is ably, if in a rather brief and
dry statement of events, chronicled in Rufus Hayn’s _A Short Life of Uriel
Septim VII_; Per Vetersen’s _Daggerfall: A Modern History_, Hasphat Antabolis’s
_Life and Times of the Nerevarine_ in its revised and updated 3rd edition, and
the three-volume _Biography of Barenziah_ by Stern Gamboge provide amplification
of detail for the later 44 years of Uriel VII’s reign, a time that was to see
great upheaval politically and socially in various provinces.

This was the period that popular imagination calls the Age of Heroes, so named
for the appearance of a succession of men and women of unusual capabilities,
seemingly arriving all but miraculously to aid the Empire, as Imperial Cyrod’s
fortunes ebbed at their lowest. Doubtless many went unknown and unsung, like the
mysterious Blades agent who orchestrated the Miracle of Peace, remembered only
in the diaries of Uriel VII and a handful of highly classified reports I was
privileged to read; but three particular individuals and their deeds stand out
in popular imagination: First the Eternal Champion, who freed Uriel VII from his
extranirnian imprisonment in a plane of Oblivion, and cast down the perfidious
battlemage Jagar Tharn; then the appearance of the Nerevarine Incarnate. I will
not enter into a discussion here on the events surrounding the Nerevarine
Prophecies, except to note that most Imperial historians agree the appearance of
the Nerevarine was heavily influential in ensuring that events surrounding the
dissolution of the Tribunal’s rule swung in favour of Imperial interests, in
tandem with that of the court of Mournhold.

Last of all came the Hero of Kvatch, anon the Champion of Cyrodiil. Here I will
attempt to address the numerous criticisms regarding my chosen portrayal of the
Champion.

Like the two other heroes listed above, very little is known of the Champion
personally. Though I would not presume to call these volumes histories,
partaking as they do of more than a little authorial license; I have ventured in
my writings to hew as close to the truth that the historical facts allow for, as
far as they can be established. As a young maid, I was fascinated by the stories
of the Champion. I have devoted most of my career as a historian, some 75 years
thus far to researching the tales and sifting them for the truth behind the
legend, the facts behind the folk histories of the Crisis.

What do we know for certain about the Champion? What were they before fate
called them to a higher destiny and the salvation of Tamriel? The yarns and
fireside tales of the grandmothers answer, “Warrior, mage, merchant, fisherman…
Thief, murderer, assassin.” Whatever their profession was before remains mostly
a mystery, an unimportant one to many who tell the stories of the Champion.

Emperor-saint Martin, in a passage from his diaries gives us this rare quote,
ostensibly straight from the Champion’s mouth, which I find apropos to ths
situation: _“He \[Emperor Uriel\] said, “As for what you have done, or have not
done, it does not matter, not now.”_ Indeed, what does it matter now?”

Other entries in Emperor-saint Martin’s diaries, as well as the precognitive
vision records of the Emperor Uriel VII, however offer further tantalising
glimpses into the Champion’s life before their calling by the gods. If these
records are to be believed, as the Blades archivist assured me they were, the
Champion was an adventurer who bent the letter but not the spirit of the laws, a
warrior and scholar, all traits that stood them in good stead for what they were
needed to accomplish in the Crisis.

Folk narratives claim variously that the Champion was a woman, a man. The
Champion was an Altmer, a Breton, Nord, Imperial, Dunmer… there are at least as
many candidates for the identity of the Champion, as there are races in Tamriel.
The various extant records do not refer to the Champion by name; all we have to
go on is an initial, “A.”. Nearly all the primary sources, save one, are almost
uniformly vague as to whether they were man or woman, or even of what race --
frustrating for the historical writer searching for facts to go on!

\[Text lost\]

The substance of the Champion’s heroic deeds is disputed: Not a corner of
Cyrodiil exists that does not bear some folk tale or legend of deeds imputed to
the Champion. For instance, in Anvil, where one of the best known tales of the
Champion originates, it is told how the Champion routed a great band of thieves,
said to be completely female in their membership, and that the Champion
variously slew anywhere between 10 to 50 of them at once in open combat. I
believe that this incident, while likely rooted in historical fact, is highly
coloured by wishful thinking and much exaggeration; it is not necessarily
factual or even linked to the Champion of Cyrodiil. Here I have attempted to
bring the better known legends and those that various sources have indicated
contain more than a grain of credibility together into a cohesive whole; I fear
however, that as others have rightly charged, such an attempt must necessarily
retain more than a few awkward corners.

\[Though stricken out by Imperial Censors, text is still decipherable behind the
lines of red ink.\]

~~What then, in the end, do we know for certain about the Champion’s life and
deeds? That they were instrumental in helping Saint Martin end the Oblivion
Crisis cannot be denied; the means he or she employed are shrouded in mystery
still impenetrable, more than a century later. We roughly know the when of
events, and the why is well known – what student of history has not by now a
passing acquaintance with the Mythic Dawn and its goals? What is truly missing
is the “how”: the full story of the struggles of these two intriguing
personages, perhaps the most important people in Tamriel at the time, and how
they finally succeeded in turning back Mehrunes Dagon’s invasion, will likely
never be known, nor the ultimate fate that overtook them in that last blaze of
_“bright light which came from the heart of Cyrodiil, blazing across the land
that was seen from Winterhold to Summerset across the four corners of
Tamriel.”_~~

{:.censored}

I only seek to offer a vision of how it _might_ have gone; and if it has proved
entertaining of a while, I shall call myself content.

Cerwen of Ilötèa

30th of Rain’s Hand, 4E 115, Imperial City
