---
title: An Ordinary Life, All Things Considered
reddit: 25sc0w
author: laurelanthalasa
date: 2014-05-17T12:10:20Z
---

“Tell me about your past.”

The woman hesitated, her hands smoothing the fine but worn quilt that rumpled
across the bed. “Why would you want to talk about that?”

“Humor me,” he said, taking a sip of the skooma-laced jazbay juice he favoured
when he was feeling decadent, which was often. He settled back against the
pillow, hands under his head, “I enjoy hearing people’s stories.”

“It is quite ordinary, considering the times.”

“Dark times they are, for an ordinary woman to be,” his golden eyes slid around
the luxurious room, “here.”

The young woman scowled, her hazel eyes flashing with quick ire that was quickly
smothered with the discipline of a professional. She cast her gaze down to her
finger tips, the short nails lacquered a shade of garish purple.

“We were, are, farmers,” her words were quiet, halting. “We worked the land, and
our clan had several holdings in High Rock, near the Reach.”

“What did you grow?” he asked, watching her intently, pale blonde hair falling
around a sinewy golden forearm.

“The land was rocky and hard, we kept a small herd of goats and grew different
root vegetables and herbs. We traded cheese, or sold it for coin, so that we did
not have to live off carrots and gourds.”

“Very good. That was not so hard, was it? Tell me more. How did you end up in
Anvil?”

“Bad luck. First an Oblivion Gate opened up nearby and killed all the goats. A
pack of Daedra chased us for weeks, through the Druadach Mountains, and by the
time they gave up pursuit, it was easier for our family to go to Markarth than
anywhere else.” The woman ran her hand through her honey-brown hair, the
shoulder-length locks falling around a delicate, fox-like face. The Altmer
almost had her again, but resisted the urge, because he wanted to hear more. He
certainly had an indulgent streak, but he tempered it with powerful
self-restraint.

The woman ignored his avid stare and continued, her voice low and melodic, “We
had no money, having not prepared for such a journey, we had lived off the land
on our wild chase through the Reach. Two of my three brothers died fending off
the natives and one of my two sisters died of fever just a few days west of
Markarth. We stumbled into the Silver-Blood Inn, and were promptly turned out.
We made our way to the Warrens.”

The Altmer stood up and scratched his buttocks, then plucked his uniform off of
the large armchair against the north wall of the room. He imperiously waved at
her to keep talking.

The woman continued, “One night, there was a celebration of sorts in the Warren,
some criminal had finished his sentence and was being released from Cidhna Mine,
and was being welcomed home. My friends and I bought a bottle of wine from
someone at the celebration, and the next thing we knew we were bound in a cart
for Cyrodiil. There were five of us kidnapped that night.”

“This does not sound ordinary.”

“It was for us. People went missing down there all the time. Men, women, boys,
girls, no one was immune to the slave trade or the desires of the bloodlusty. I
saw you Thalmor everywhere, surely you knew how it was down there. The things
that happened.” Her lip curled derisively, twisting her otherwise pretty face
into a hateful sneer, “Are you all _that_ blind?”

The elf casually backhanded the woman, sending her reeling down against the
quilt, its faded red linen feeling gritty in her sweaty palms. She sat up, and
muttered, “Apologies, Justiciar. I did not mean to be rude.”

“I could kill you for that kind of talk. No one would question me.”

“I know,” her voice shook a bit, but otherwise she was calm, her hazel eyes
flicking up to the Justiciar’s golden eyes, and then hastily back down to the
quilt. “Please don’t kill me.”

His golden eyes narrowed, “Who kidnapped you?”

“Homeless thugs, who handed us off to a people smuggling gang outside of
Markarth. But they were on the orders of some Dark Elves in Cyrodiil.”

“Who?” The Thalmor licked his lips eagerly, as he buttoned up his cloak and
pulled his gloves over his hands.

“I do not know their house name, because the people transporting us reneged on
that deal and sold us to someone else.”

The elf sighed with disappointment, and idly threw a bag of coins onto the table
by the large oaken door.

“Tell the madam next time I would prefer a male.” He walked out, leaving the
door open behind him.

The woman stood up, pulled on a pair of trousers, straightened her hair, and
made the bed. She threw the coinpurse into a lockbox near the door, and sunk her
teeth into an apple.

Edit: changed Forsworn to natives.
