---
series: On Trolls
part: 1
title: The Pantheon of the Wagkuni
reddit: 261v2i
author: Sythirius
date: 2014-05-20T18:38:38Z
about: |
  Thanks for reading! Also be sure to check out [A Troll Creation Myth][0]!

  [0]: ./262a1w
---

> Publisher’s Note: This particular work, whose translator wishes to remain
> nameless, is said to have been based on a translation from an old, dusty tome
> scavenged from some forgotten ruin of an archive in a library in Dunlain
> Falls. It describes a fanciful account of what I can only describe as a
> codification of a “troll religion.” The aforementioned trolls, or Wagkuni as
> they call themselves, seem to follow a religion centered mainly around three
> gods, whose origins I simply can not ascertain. Linguistically speaking, if
> there is any truth to be found in this document, it’s that a word used for
> werewolves around the reach is “Warg,” which in this case, seems to stem from
> “Wag.” Wag can mean a variety of things, but it really comes down to whether
> the speaker considers something a wolf or not. Again, the reader is warned
> that this is taken from an extremely silly text, and should not likely be
> taken seriously, at all.

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

The trolls believe that all began in a place called **Halja**, which they
describe as a world without sound. An empty void. The spirit of Halja is what
they appear to label the **Gathrahan**, which seems to be depicted in pictures
as uttering something loud (and probably rude) and then paradoxically becoming a
non-entity, which is of course strange, seeing as how it basically was a thing
based on the concept of doing nothing. Perhaps a concept our elven neighbors
would gladly lend aid in explaining I’m sure.

While in this current volume, I am not completely able to translate the language
(thank the gods for loan words from the Reach!), there are a few things I feel I
can accurately surmise, which I will relate as follows.

Pantheon of the Wagkuni:

**Aluthareis**. A goddess of some sort who is portrayed as rising between two
large gems in the sky that appear to be Masser and Secunda. She appears to have
two silver wings made of wolf fur, with which she stays in the heavens, watching
over all Wag. Continuing images show wolves howling to her, which is seen as a
prayer of sorts to her. She is married to the “Lost Child” and “Skald-King”
Kaldysmi, and is the daughter of Maganwag, who entrusted her with the “Great
Song.”

**Wirginma**. Only given the title “The One Who Reaps,” and nothing else, I was
forced to interpret for myself what this god represented. He appears with the
image of a blood-red moon behind him, and carries a harvester’s scythe. From
what I can tell in other scenes, he is depicted as a “thief” and always tries to
steal the harvest before it is ripe. He also periodically challenges the
Wagkuni, in order to make them stronger. His union with his wife Warqina appears
to be the creation myth of the Wagkuni for how they were born. Afterwards, he is
shown as being cast into what I can only assume is Oblivion.

**Warqina**. Again, I am saddened that this goddess only bears a single title.
“The One Who Sows.” She appears to be responsible for the planting of the
harvest, and is depicted as a she-wolf nurturing her cubs. Behind her is the
shadow of Wirginma, who she must always protect her young from.

These three gods appear to make up the entirety of the main troll pantheon, with
attendant spirits and minor gods underneath them, which are as follows.

**Kaldysmi**. Kaldysmi is clearly reminiscent of the Missing God’s cult, and a
more clear story is finally presented here. Kaldysmi, who is portrayed as a
savage one-eyed wolf in a frozen land, starts out as being a more gentle
creature, whose song leads the pack when Maganwag is sleeping. When winter comes
after Maganwag is asleep for too long however, he journeys through the storm to
awaken him. While journeying, his heart is pierced by an icicle, and he quickly
becomes “cold-hearted” and the winter begins to kill him. He murders the nature
spirit, Fugle, and dooms the homeland of the Wagkuni, before having his heart
ripped out by Maganwag after Wirginma wakes him up.

**Bokhuna**. Bokhuna is only depicted as a god wearing fine robes while
inscribing runes and what appears to be some notation system for what I can only
assume is chanting. He teaches Wirginma of the ways of the land, but has his
book of the Great Song stolen by him. He is then seen cursing Wirginma into
reciting the Great Song until he can record the book again. Wagkuni who are
depicted as not doing this are shown as being driven mad by Bokhuna. He is also
responsible for teaching the Wagkuni how to plant and harvest earlier, so as to
prevent Wirginma from stealing their crops.

**Maganwag**. A primordial deity born out of the First Utterance of the
Gathrahan. The love he made to the Great Song produced all life, including the
place he made for himself to rest among his people, **Nirna**. But the world
began to freeze while he slept, and it depicts the world as dark without his
light. When he is finally awoken by Wirginma, he is shown as grieving for his
creation, and then slaughtering the “Mad Wolf” Kaldysmi: his son. He leaves his
broken creation for Wirginma to rule, and waits to return at the “coda.”
Maganwag is depicted as a giant wolf, shining brightly, surrounded by the light
of 108 stars.

**Fugle**. A nature spirit that was murdered by Kaldysmi but was reborn because
of her great rage. She is a vengeful and capricious entity, teaching the Wagkuni
the harshness of nature, but also how to survive it. She taught the Wagkuni how
to hide themselves from enemies, and how to eliminate them in secret. Her
devotees include those that venerate her beauty in nature, and assassins and
spies who have survived her trials and can use the elements as an “extension of
themselves.” She is depicted as a shadowy spirit that hides in the forms of
birds, and appears to have no specific form.
