---
title: A Drunken Treatise on Water, Memory, and Culture
reddit: 261zs1
author: AMFKing
date: 2014-05-20T19:23:03Z
---

**WHEREAS** the war in \[Daggerfall\] has destroyed my livelihood as a
librarian, and…

**WHEREAS** I had previously sought comfort in the female form but have now
fallen in love with what may be a time-ghost of a man I’ll never see, and…

**WHEREAS** I was formerly a teetotaller but have now spent the last of my
savings on Cyrodiiliac brandy (and a number of wheeled nirnroot planters)…

I present to you, in unedited form, A Drunken Treatise on Water, Memory, and
Culture, by Ancelmar Oderion, former librarian, now elf-about-town.

I must first confess that, as a librarian, my primary skill was always in
organizing and locating texts. Research, metaphysics, and genuinely original
thought could safely be considered beyond me.

Since converting to the worship of the fermented drink, however, I do find my
muddy thoughts often turning back to a recent theory that was heatedly discussed
amidst our stacks, that being the quality of water where it also functions as
memory.

The particulars of the theory are above my head. That the earth is also the
bodies of those beings who gave themselves to create our orb is clear to me. The
water theory is similar (I think); the liquid medium of our rivers and oceans is
also memory stuff, possibly of the dead.

Again, the particulars of the exact process is beyond me, but I find myself
considering the larger cultural implications while rolling through my dependable
drunken hazes.

## On Nords

Water is memory, and memory is the past. What can be said of ice, then? The
decisions of the Nordic race are often _driven_ by biting, blinding memory--the
cruel past yearly puts them in a place of life-or-death decisions.

Is this why Nords are so honorbound and traditional? Because they live in a
realm where memory is a solid thing? A thing that will kill you if you don’t
live your life according to its demands?

And so they go to the sea, where memory is softer and easier to navigate.

## On Khajiit

Those strange, guarded beasts from the deserts--where is their tradition? and
where is their memory? Dried up and blown away, I assume, and so the Khajiit
feel free to wander off and pay heed to no one. If one lacked memory, life would
be a delight! No regrets, no guilt, no ownership.

(What of their loyalty to Alkosh, their time god? Maybe they’re not loyal to
him—maybe _he_ is loyal to _them._ Or maybe they love him for going back in time
and scrubbing away their tradition to anything but themselves.)

## On Argonians

What can be said about a people who are at as at home in water as they are on
land? For Argonians, memory is a medium of their life. They swim in it, eat from
it, are sustained by it. Their Hist suck it up and dispense it as sap, and
Argonians gain from that sap a deep reverence for their tradition and their
past. And even when on land, they sulk through water-turned-air, through memory
mist.

When one can float through memory all the day long, the future doesn’t seem so
important.

This may also account for the Argonians’ longstanding attempts to regain their
lost lands—to them, breathing memory, those lands are _still_ theirs. The past
is alive in their lungs or gills or what have you.

## On the Other Races

I am drunk now, and waxing imperial. It’s easy enough for me to wonder about the
more savage people, but examining the “civilized” cultures of Tamriel is too
similar to examining myself, and that holds no appeal to me.

## On Drink

Have you watched drink ferment? Little bubbles fizzing out. It’s my belief that
the process turns water and memory to air—to nothing. I’m blessed by whatever
alchemical process is able to turn water to alcohol—memory to forgetfulness.
Memory fizzes away like bubbles, off to old Herma-Mora’s black books.

## On Books

Prideful things, aren’t they, in light of all this? A vain attempt to try to
match water; we put our memories down on vellum and cloth. I seek to recapture
the hubbub and impassioned discussion of my fellow librarians, but I have only
my own dull tongue.

Memory can be water, and it is beautiful and flowing and sings over rocks and
steams into the sky. Memory can be books, and they sit and collect dust or
shrivel and die at the touch of a flame. Who needs books?

## On Things Being Other Things

I am good and gone now, and I’ve exhausted my thoughts on water being anything
other than a drink. I don’t like it, you see. I don’t like when something is
something else. I lived my life as one thing—a librarian—and now that’s gone.
Now I have to be other things. _Multiple_ things. And I have to be a not-thing.
I have to be a not-librarian.

\[the paper ends with a poorly rendered outline of a head filled in with many
words:

drunk

not-librarian

gardener musician

milk drinker\]
