---
series: On Trolls
part: 2
title: A Troll Creation Myth
reddit: 262a1w
author: Sythirius
date: 2014-05-20T21:01:44Z
about: |
  If you haven’t already, I highly recommend you read [On Trolls: The Pantheon
  of the Wagkuni](./261v2i) first. It will help you understand this a little
  better.

  Credit to Snow Seychelle for the whale artwork.

  Also, be sure check out the conclusion of the three-part series: [On Trolls:
  Nights of the Gathrahan](./264ulp).
---

At first, all was Halja, and there were no Wag, and no Wagkuni. The Gathrahan,
which was the spirit of the silence, got annoyed that everything was so quiet,
and bellowed loudly, and there was no more silence, and he vanished. This was
the first capo, to be repeated ‘till the coda.

The sound he uttered was the purest note rang in the history of the world, and
from it came forth Maganwag, our great father. Maganwag sprang forth, already
singing the chants of our people, and he loved the [Great Song][0]. But Maganwag
was lonely in the the great void of Halja, so he gave all of his love to the
Song, until she gave birth to his first pup, and named her Aluthareis, and then
went on created many, many more children.

After his children numbered 1008, he became very tired, so he created a place to
rest his head, and named it Nirna. But while he was sleeping, Nirna grew cold,
and his children suffered. Kaldysmi, the husband of Aluthareis decided he would
brave the cold to reach Maganwag to wake him up, but a shard of ice pierced his
heart, and he was unable to continue. As the land continued to die, his son
Wirginma said, “I will go and wake Maganwag up, since papa Kaldysmi can’t sing
no more.” And Wirginma was wise and went to old hoary Bokhuna, who held open his
book of the Great Song, and showed him there the picture of a [Great Fish][1]
that can swim in even the sky-snow. Bokhuna was Clever, and so taught Wirginma
of the ways of taming and riding the mighty creatures. But Wirginma was even
more of a Clever Wag, so he stole the book of the Great Song, and continued.

After riding the Great Fish into the skies, he met Fugle, the Spirit of Life,
who was growing sick because of all the snow. Fugle tried to teach Wirginma how
to breathe into Maganwag the breath of life, but Wirginma could only take what
Fugle was breathing in him. Because of this, Wirginma became a Wag, and Fugle
cursed him saying, “Wirginma, if you are so Clever, why can you only take? I now
make you a Wag, so everyone can see that you are like your cold father, who
doesn’t even know how to walk properly. I curse you as I cursed him. You will
never surpass this storm.”

And so Wirginma became a hideous creature, scaring the Great Fish, and leaving
him alone in the great storm. The land was almost frozen, and desperate, he
cried to the sky above him. But the snow killed his cries, and no one could hear
him. But his mother, Aluthareis heard him and took pity on him, and she took two
hairs from Kaldysmi and set them in the sky for Wirginma to see. Each hair
became like a brilliant gem, and Aluthareis braided them until they were all
latticed. She made a bridge of Kaldysmi’s fur for him to climb up and find her,
and she then took Kaldysmi’s eye and put it inside him, as a guide through the
storm. This is why Wagkuni have three eyes. But Aluthareis stole the book of the
Great Song, and so she became a Wag too.

As Wirginma continued, his father’s eye guided him until he found Maganwag. And
then he howled and howled, as hard as he could, until Maganwag woke. And
Maganwag was sorrowed with what he had done to Nirna. Since he had taken her
spirit from her, he became a Wag too. But One-Eyed Kaldsymi was angry, and
Bokhuna was also angry. Bokhuna asked Wirginma for the book of the Great Song,
which had been stolen, to be returned. Wirginma decided to give the book back,
but when he couldn’t find it, Bokhuna got angry, and shut Wirginma’s third eye
until he had recited the entire song all over again from the beginning of the
capo, so Bokhuna could write it all down. This is why Wagkuni must constantly
sing and chant, or Bokhuna will make us insane by shutting out the light of our
third-eyes. Because of this, Bokhuna too, became a Wag.

One-Eyed Kaldysmi was angry at Wirginma, Fugle, and Althareis, and with his icy
heart, he breathed out a winter so hard, that the whole land died completely,
killing Fugle, who then began a Spirit of Vengance. Maganwag was furious, and he
tore out Kaldysmi Skald-King’s Heart out, but when he tried to devour it, the
icy Heart was too hard, and it laughed at him, declaring him unfit to lead the
pack. Maganwag became saddened, knowing that it was true, and left for Far-Off
Shores to watch over his children from there. He declared Wirginma the new pack
leader, and Wirginma’s children became our people, the Wagkuni. Wirginma cried
to Aluthareis his mother, and set his father Kaldysmi on a boat to a far-off
land, hoping that Maganwag would one day take pity on him and breathe in him the
Great Song again. The Gathrahan took in Kaldysmi’s spirit since it was empty,
and it became the “Void-which-Is-Not.”

Wirginma then left to the land we live underneath now, which the
surfacers-who-are-not-elves call Dunlain, anon High Rock. It was there that
Wirginma decided to make more Wag, but when his wife Warqina came to him, she
stole his compassion, and she became a Wag too. Warqina was saddened by this,
and so she decided to give compassion to her children freely, and this is why no
one else became a Wag. Wirginma went mad, and attacked his own children, which
is why Wagkuni must often fight our brethren for dominion. But Warqina taught us
rules for the Wagkuni to use while fighting, and so it continued that no one
became a Wag, and there was peace. And Wirginma was cast out into a far-off
land, and continued to make Wag out of men. Aluthareis allows him in every Red
Moon to make mischief, and also to harvest and steal our crops, which Warqina
plants. This is why Bokhuna taught us how to plant and harvest early, so that we
may steal our own inheritance from Wirginma.

But what else can I tell you child that you have not yet heard before? You know
of the Ndbahs-who-were-blight which we tamed, and of the pointy-eared alves who
cast us down into our catacombs where we stay still. You know of our neighbors
the humans, who think we are all stupid and call us trolls. Or perhaps I could
tell you of our cousins the Ice Tribes, who attacked a far off City where the
Men-Who-Are-A-Little-Less-Loud-Than-Us live. And how we fill our halls with
chant which we will keep doing until the coda. Now sleep little Wagkun, while I
put you to rest with the [song our our people][2].

[0]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYhriBNcIz8
[1]:
  https://snowseychelle.files.wordpress.com/2011/10/watercolor-whale-final.jpg
[2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xsveiPJcxlE
