---
title: A Theory on the Mechanics of Towers
reddit: 268egs
author: MareloRyan
date: 2014-05-22T19:01:42Z
---

After-the-fact preface: The idea has recently been floated that [the Towers are
not nearly as important to the stability of Mundus as the lore community
generally believes][0], and I’m inclined to agree. Rather, I see the Towers
primarily as mythopoeia amplifiers, means to define reality. This is made
evident in _ESO_ as well as out-of-game texts. If they are related to stability
at all, they are related to things like climate and magical defense and ecology
and so on, things that keep a culture’s way of life viable. The reasoning below
applies just as well to this idea.

---

Often people ask how, exactly, the Towers stabilize Mundus, and why, exactly,
the Stones are necessary to maintain that function. I’ve had answers to these
questions fermenting for a while, and I think they’re ready to put forth, once
again as part of my [model](/r/GodheadModel).

## Mythitecture

> [The spike of Ada-Mantia, and its Zero Stone, dictated the structure of
> reality in its Aurbic vicinity, defining for the Earth Bones their story or
> nature within the unfolding of the Dragon’s (timebound) Tale. The Aldmeri or
> Merethic Elves were singular of purpose only so long as it took them to
> realize that other Towers, with their own Stones, could tell different
> stories, each following rules inscribed by Variorum Architects.][1]

---

> [Every dawnmaker Tower takes a myth-form. Red Tower is a volcano and its
> surrounds. Snow Throat a mountain whose apex is only half here. Walk-Brass is
> appropriately ambulatory, and \(most of the time\) anthropomorphic… Though the
> Ayleids gave theirs a central Spire as the imago of Ada-mantia, the whole of
> the polydox resembled the Wheel, with eight lesser towers forming a ring
> around their primus. To dismiss this mythitecture as being a mockery of the
> Aurbis is to ignore an important point: this same “jest” gave White-Gold Tower
> a power over creatia unalike any on this plane(t).][2]

With those two quotes, I think it’s clear where I’m going with this. Towers are
stories. At first I thought they had to be stories _about_ Mundus, but I turned
out to be half-wrong, on further reflection. They aren’t necessarily stories
about Mundus. They’re stories _of_ Mundus. They are structures dictated from
within, not from without. You follow? The Towers, collectively, are the emergent
AE of Mundus, and all its consituent parts, the Aedra, the Earthbones, the
mortals within, are subject to them.

Everything in the Aurbis is a song, a story. That includes Mundus, and the end
of Mundus’ story is the end of Mundus itself. But stories don’t have to end all
at once. Plot threads can resolve together, or separately, interweaving or
splitting as they will. Therefore, to end the story of Mundus, to kill its AE,
you have to resolve each of its major plot threads.

The Stones, then, are anchors, resonant evidence of the relevance of the Tower
stories to Mundus’ overall arc. Material objects and phenomena eternally at the
center of myth, things that scream out, “THIS REALLY HAPPENED.”

And note, of course, that the plot thread that constitutes a Tower is not
necessarily the same as the purpose for which it was constructed, if it has one.
The purpose for which a Chekov Gun is acquired is irrelevant to the role it
eventually fulfills in the plot. But, at the same time, it is also possible for
the purpose and the plot to overlap.

## Resolved and Unresolved

To resolve a Tower is to end its relevance to the ongoing story of Mundus. Its
pieces may persist, and may even have further parts to play, but they no longer
constitute the resolved plot thread.

Take the Towers in turn:

_Ada-Mantia_: The first plot thread of Nirn, Convention. Anchored by the Zero
Stone, which is
[held in the Foundation Vault](https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Once). Unresolved.

_Red Tower_: The second, Red Mountain, the story of Lorkhan’s Heart and its
flight over Tamriel, and the mer who followed it. Anchored by the Manifest Heart
itself, which beat deep within the mountain. Resolved by the Nerevarine, who set
the Heart free from its material form.

_White-Gold_: The story of the Ayleids, bleeding into the story of the
Cyrodiilic humans and the empire they forged. Anchored by the Chim-el-Adabal,
the Amulet of Kings, a symbol of the Dragonborn lineage and the right to rule.
Resolved by the Champion of Cyrodiil, who aided Martin in shutting out Mehrunes
Dagon with the power of the Amulet.

_Crystal-Like-Law_: The story of the Altmer quest for divinity and escape from
Mundus, taking the form of the apparatus by which they sought Dracochrysalis.
Anchored by a Person, perhaps Auriel, who succeeded by ascending Ada-Mantia, and
whom they sought to follow by erecting Crystal-Like-Law. Resolved by the
destruction of Crystal-Like-Law itself in the Oblivion Crisis, shutting the
Altmer out from Auriel’s path.

_Snow Throat_: The story of Skyrim and its struggles with dragons, with the form
of the Throat of the World, sacred to both the Nords and dragons. Anchored by
the Cave, perhaps the Time Wound at its peak. Resolved by the Last Dragonborn,
who entered the Time Wound and learned its secrets to defeat Alduin for good.

_Green-Sap_: Falinesti and its siblings, the story of the Bosmer, who did not
build, but grew. Anchored by the Perchance Acorn, which could have been in many
trees, and so there were many Green-Saps, and each was all, and they walked and
shifted. Resolved, perhaps by the Thalmor, when the Green-Saps stopped walking
and shifting.

_Orichalc_: The story of ancient Yokuda. Anchored by the Sword. Likely resolved
by the sinking of Yokuda with the Pankratosword.

_Walk-Brass_: The story of the Dwemer, who hated the very idea of existence, and
sought to overrule it with denial and refusal. Anchored, ironically, by itself
and its refusal to let go of its single-minded purpose. Resolved by
Jubal-lun-Sul, who convinced it to die, who convinced it to end by convincing it
that NO is not the only answer.

_Khajiit_: The story of Azurah’s children, who live by and for the moons.
Anchored by the Mane, who conducts them to climb and set the moons right again
when needed. Resolved (for now), perhaps by the Thalmor, perhaps by
assassinating the Mane.

_Talos_: The story of Lorkhan reborn, through the myth-echo of the enantiomorph,
of his ferocious fight to protect what he loves, Mundus. Anchored perhaps by
mortal life on Mundus, his beloved children. Resolved perhaps by the exodus of
mortals from the Mundus in the wake of the Landfall event. Or perhaps anchored
by the existence of the Third Empire, and resolved by its eventual dissolution.

I will also conjecture that the Hist and Argonians constitute an unresolved plot
thread, and thus act as a Tower. There are probably others aside.

Is it any wonder that a Tower falls with almost every game? The plot threads are
resolving, sometimes through conspiracy, and sometimes through the natural
course of events; that only ever brings about an end.
[But not _the_ end.](https://c0da.es/t/c0da)

[0]:
  https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2xyc9h/a_few_questions_about_the_state_of_the_towers/cp4mowc
[1]: https://esohead.com/books/1421-aurbic-enigma-4-the-elden-tree
[2]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/nu-mantia-intercept
