---
series: A Model of the Godhead and its Contents
part: 6
title: Addendum III
subtitle: Mythopoeia and CHIM
reddit: 269ad8
author: MareloRyan
date: 2014-05-23T00:28:46Z
---

[Part I][0]

[Part II][1]

[Part III][2]

[Addendum I][3]

[Addendum II][4]

Yet another minor addendum to [my model][5], only intended to briefly explore
some interesting ideas in its context.

---

This time around, I've had a thunderbolt of inspiration courtesy of
/u/Hollymarkie's comment on my [thread about Towers and mythitecture][6]:

> [Like Ada-Mantia is the one that shaped reality around it, the Towers shape
> the reality of the people \(mythopoeia? Homo Mensura? maybe a bit of
> both\).][7]

Symbolism abounds!

Mythopoeia is (according to me, anyhow) the ability of mortal stories to alter
and fracture and shape the AE of the Aedra and Earthbones, who died as part of
the creation of Mundus, became comatose and shifting and many-faceted. They gave
up agency, or had it stolen from them, depending on who you ask, and so they
cannot choose to define themselves, even as they form the underlying rules and
themes of the Mundus.

And, as discussed in my mythitecture theory, the Towers form the various
collective AE of the mortal denizens of Mundus, as their plot threads stabilize
and shape the nature of the Aedra and Earthbones. The Towers are giant
mythopoeia machines, essentially, carving out the aspects of the Aedra by force
of cultural belief and story.

Now, take Mundus as a symbol of Aurbis, the Wheel within the Wheel, as usual
(and note that Anu-as-Amaranth died to form Aurbis, and split into many
aspects). At the Aurbical level, from the apex of the Tower, from the [state of
Love under Will][8], Aurbis can be shaped. What does that look like at the
Mundane level? What symbolizes CHIM within Mundus? The conscious manipulation of
mythopoeia, of course. It's right in the title of this thread. And there's also
the obvious connection between the use of Tower label for both phenomena.

From the apex of a mythic Tower, one can shape Mundus, and from the apex of
_the_ Tower, the Wheel turned on its side, one can shape Aurbis. What
constitutes the apex in the case of a mythic Tower? Probably depends on the
Tower, but in the more literal cases, the actual top of the structure; being
within it does not suffice, just as being within Love does not suffice on its
own. And this corresponds with the apex of the Aurbical Tower, which, as
mentioned above, is the state found by taking the Triangular Gate, that is, the
achievement of Will. Love under Will; Will is on top.

So, if Mundus is designed as a symbolic roadmap to Amaranth, through CHIM, what
better way to reveal the possibility of CHIM than to reproduce it in miniature?
To demonstrate the changing of a world through willpower and belief, with tools
that look an awful lot like the mechanisms of CHIM?

Sidenote: The various apotheoses of Talos are very interesting to dissect in
this light. Which came first, mantling Lorkhan, CHIM, or the enantiomorph? I'd
wager the lattermost came first, that Talos became a conscious mythic Tower,
then felt Love through that state, survived via Will, and followed this up by
finishing the formation of the Empire, thereby becoming Lorkhan but remaining
distinct through Will. And yes, I mean _all_ of Talos. Not just Septim. The
enantiomorph fused their souls, and they know it; what one is, they all are, in
my opinion. (Speaking of the enantiomorph, consider how much more prepared Talos
would be to take the Triangular Gate, the Royal Enantiomorph, having already
undergone an enantiomorphic event before feeling Love. And think about what that
might mean for the Nerevarine's chances at success in the Endeavor.)

I think that's about it. Pretty straightforward this time. The mythopoeic
effects of manipulating the Towers symbolize CHIM.

[0]: ./21c4yy
[1]: ./21fqmi
[2]: ./21rpzs
[3]: ./23lwi6
[4]: ./250750
[5]: https://old.reddit.com/r/GodheadModel/
[6]: ./268egs
[7]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/268egs/a_theory_on_the_mechanics_of_towers/chonhk4
[8]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/24wmh2/chim_mastery_and_domain_will_and_love/
