---
title: HRAHNDEYL’s Sword-Meetng with Cyrus the Restless
reddit: 26az5k
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-05-23T15:33:05Z
about: |
  Well, it’s the 23rd. Time for me to head out for the summer because school is
  letting out. So here’s my gift to you all. I hope you all enjoy it. See you
  all in August!
---

_Stories are told in many tongues and in many ways. The Spinners of the Bosmer
whisper the tales of their trees and weave new ones. The Saxhleel commune with
their Hist and tell of times since passed, to come, and may be here already. But
regardless of who tells it, a story is still a story; founded in both truth and
myth, woven through legends and lore. And even when these tales originate from
somewhere else, they have a habit of going somewhere else as well. Such are the
stories of Sura of the Bend’r Mark, the Maverick-Sword of the Crowns,
‘He-Who-Made-Talk-Shut-Up’, the mythic known as Cyrus._

_This tale is one such story, and it whispers in the ears of those that can
truly hear it, because it is founded in the very nature of Talk. And all know
that all Talk comes from a central source, like how ocean begat river begat lake
begat stream. The source of Talk has many names that are both old and new,
because he himself is both young and ancient. For some he is Hr’andyl, the
Mumblings of Protection. For others he is Hran of the Dale, the Whisperer of
Darkness. And in Yoku he is Hoodoc, where he is Voice-of-the-People. But
collectively he is_ **_HRAHNDEYL,_** _the Bat God of Talk, the King of Speech,
the Resonator of Words. He is and is in the truth, the lies, and the truth of
the lies of which you say. From his Spire he gazes upon his beloved Ice Cream
Isle and into the beyond, where his influence touches all. When_ **_HRAHNDEYL_**
_speaks, all know to listen. Except for one. When the Restless hears enough of
something, he makes it quiet down. The first time he did this was with his
brother-in-law Hakan, and that event is how you truly begin a story._

---

“Is that the sky? But we’re underground.”

“We’re in the last section of my Spire before you reach the Top. I didn’t take
you up there because you’re not ready for that yet. Besides, I fear you’re
probably not interested in seeing it anyway. This will simply have to do,
hopefully.”

“That’s not answering my question.”

“You really are persistent, aren’t you? The Spire’s multiple sections attune
themselves to different aurbical notes, as that is the nature of Talk. They
exist in when and in where and in what, like I do. This one is a sky because–”

“You know what? I don’t want to know anymore. When the others told me you were
the God of Talk And Makes Others Listen, I thought they were just exaggerating.”

“If that’s the form you’ll be more comfortable with… now, does this shape make
you feel more at eased?”

“If you think turning into a Yokudan with the head of a bat is going to
intimidate me, you might want to think up another magic trick.”

“Everyone is intimidated by Talk, and you are no exception. You just don’t care
enough to admit it.”

“Sorry, I’m just not seeing myself being afraid of something as irritating as
you.”

“Your courage knows no bounds, sura. These last few minutes have actually been
delightful. Are you sure you don’t want to keep having this conversation with
me?”

“I’m sure. Now, I’m going to ask for the final time: where’s my jewel?”

“Do you speak of the same jewel which I now speak of? The one you stole from the
Hist, who were and still are my companions during my long years in exile? If we
do in fact speak of the same jewel, then you already know that I cannot let you
have it.”

“Oh really? And why is that? Because the Hist is your friend, is that it?”

“I thought you out of all people Yokudan would appreciate and respect the notion
of what you all of quick lives call honor.”

“I do respect it. And any other day I would respect you for wanting to avenge
your friends. But I stole the jewel fair and square; now I request again that
you give it back.”

“Ah, I see. Did you know that I knew you were going to say that? I shall tell
you something, Yokudan: For everything you’ve ever said, have said, and will say
I was the one that let and will let you utter it. Stealing it fair and square
does not matter to me. When I heard you voice it, I knew it was only a matter of
time.”

“Then let me say this, since you already know I’m going to say it anyway: You
may be Hoodoc, but I don’t care. The Eye is mine, and I’m leaving with it.”

“And are you so certain about this rash belief of self-entitlement that you
would challenge me and risk your life over it?”

“If I have to cut my way through you to get it, then that is what I intend to
do.”

> THE REST IS IN THE .PDF
>
> _(The link is dead, and has been removed)_{:tag="ins"}

{:tag="about" .afterword}
