---
series: Undiscovered
part: 3
title: The Undiscovered Aurbis
subtitle: Introductions to Varasieth, Nagrom Meferan, and The Courts of Sred Toc
reddit: 26e9dw
author: Doom-DrivenPoster
date: 2014-05-24T19:40:13Z
---

## Introductions to Your Guides

You’ve come this far, so I suppose it is only fair I tell you about yours truly
and my allies.

## Varasieth

I am Varasieth, the Spirit of Discovery, Exploration, and Piracy. I am the
Pirate Philosopher at the helm of the Eversail, the capital ship of our fleet.
With gilded ships and sails shining as pearl, we are always on an eternal
journey through the World River.

This is our Golden Voyage. We travel through every current and every branch as
we please, never fearing lostness because being lost is just another adventure.
Not that we could be lost! With Prismata, my beloved spyglass, I can see into
every world that ever existed. Ours is not a tyrannical fleet. Each and every
Spirit has a say in where we go next. We plunder and gather treasure from our
many travels, both as mementos and as promises of the future. I bid everyone I
cross paths with to heed the call of adventure. Come join our Golden Voyage, and
you will never know boredom again.

**Nagrom Meferan**

Nagrom Meferan is the Spirit of Exposition, Translation, and Mediation. His
“Plane of Oblivion”, as you would call it, is Hatlastad. Also known as the
Gallery of Maps, it is a museum containing images of nearly anything or anywhere
you desire to see in this particular Branch of the World River. Nagrom chooses
not to wear a physical form. Instead, he manifests his presence as a loud
disembodied voice. Rumor has it that the lesser creatures who enter his realm
are haunted by his voice for all eternity, as he narrates their daily lives. He
frequently invites disputing parties to his Gallery in an attempt to solve their
conflict. Though he was unwilling to leave his Plane of Oblivion to join us, we
remain “friends”, or at least that is the closest approximation to the mortal
equivalent of our relationship.

We are the primary guides to your journey, but there are also many lesser
Spirits that have joined in our mission. These are what you would call “Lesser
Daedra”, similar to the Dremora. Foremost among my companions are the Silver
Swashbucklers. Like myself, they carry hearts yearning for adventure and will
never hesitate to explore an unknown realm. The Golden Galleons themselves are
the works of Spirits binding Creatia to themselves. In this way, we can each
take our Plane of Oblivion with us wherever we go.

These may be the most thematic of my companions, but we have recruited many
Sailors from many different Branches and Currents. Once upon a time, several of
the “Dremora” joined my cruise in the hope for stronger opponents. The darkened
Swordsman-Sailors from distant Shores also joined my voyage, though they tend to
be more ephemeral than the other Sailors. Refugees from many a dying Current
have also joined my cruise in the hopes of finding a new home. As far as I am
concerned, so long as you have a heart for adventure, anyone is welcome in our
Fleet.

Now that I have told you about myself, it is time I tell you about some of the
Planes of Oblivion that you have never heard of before.

## The Courts of Sred Toc

Sred Toc is the Spirit of Radical Justice, Idealism, and Hypocrisy. His Realm of
Oblivion is a massive Courthouse containing billions of courtrooms. The Courts
are always in session, as the Spirits his Daedra hunt down are constantly being
put on trial for trumped-up charges that Sred felt they deserved for their
“wrongdoings”. Beneath his Courthouse is a massive prison complex designed to
contain virtually any Spirit trapped inside.

Sred believes his methods provide justice to victims who would never have had
closure otherwise. Wherever a perceived injustice takes place, he is quick to
respond and attempt to deliver his own brand of vigilante justice, regardless of
the cost to himself. His powers are limited, however, and his ability to enforce
his arbitrary laws is thus restricted.

This doesn’t stop him from trying to punish people who are far above his weight
class. He has frequently dueled with Nocturnal and her ilk during his many
attempts to arrest them for their crimes on the innocents in Mundus. It is
rumored, however, that his real target is Akatosh and the Aedra. He has accused
them of murdering Lorkhan, and feels very strongly that they ought to be brought
to justice. It is unlikely that he actually has a personal reason for his
pursuit of Lorkhan’s killer. More likely, he is simply doing it to be faithful
to his ideals. This stubborn refusal to accept reality has resulted in numerous
one-sided wars between the Ur-Dra and his own servants. He has failed to break
her Wall of Night to this day.

He employs a sect of Spirits known as the Enforcers, a group just as dedicated
to their ideals as Sred Toc is. They faithfully obey his orders to hunt down and
arrest any Spirit that he issues a warrant for. He gives each of his servants a
badge imbued with some of his own power and keeps a gavel capable of unknown
feats.

Sred Toc frequently claims that he supports everyone following their own ideals,
but his actions conflict with this sentiment as he tends to issues warrants for
anyone that conflicts with his own. He has pursued my Fleet many times in the
past, but we have always managed to escape. I consider him to be something of a
nemesis.

[Previous Page](./26bkjp)
[Next Page](./26pkrw)
