---
series: "A Pocket Guide to Skyrim and Its Environs: Hjaalmarch, Third Edition"
part: 1
title: Cover & Foreword
reddit: 26pw8p
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-05-28T19:02:27Z
---

> Being a Description of the Hold
>
> and the Divers Customs of the Inhabitants
>
> and furthermore a useful history of this place
>
> of interest by Nature of its
>
> Culture and History.
>
> Dedicated
>
> To the unswerving Commitment to Land and Brethren
>
> of Their Most Commanding Majesties Emperor Uriel Septim VII and High King
> Torbarik Wolf-Arm
>
> Promulgated under the Authority of the Imperial Geographical Society and the
> Scribes of Windhelm
>
> 3E 411

For the glory of the Fatherland this has been written, and with the end of the
Moot and the crowning of the new High King this guide has been requested to be
inscribed by not only the Emperor of Tamriel but also Torbarik himself. The
first edition and various installments of A Pocket Guide to Skyrim and its
Environs have long since fallen out of favor and are in much need of a
rewriting, having been originally scribed back during the beginning years of the
Third Empire, which is commonly known as the coming reign of Talos Stormcrown,
who united the eight provinces of Tamriel into a nation of peace and prosperity.

With the combined efforts of the Scribes of Windhelm and the Imperial Geographic
Society, this guide will inform the northern traveler of one of the many regions
of Skyrim, and the birthplace of High King Torbarik in his new years as enacting
ruler of all Skyrim.

## The War Creeds of the Nordic Gods

Breathe through KYNE, and we will make our Enemies Flee for their Lives.

Care through MARA, and we will make our Enemies Weep for their Brethren.

Love through DIBELLA, and we will make our Enemies miss their Wives.

Judge through STUHN, and we will make our Enemies our Prisoners.

Enchant through JHUNAL, and we will make our Enemies into New Things.

Strike through SHOR, and we will make our Enemies enter their Afterlife.

Test through ORKEY, and we will make our Enemies their own Sons.

Destroy through ALDUIN, and we make our Enemies corpses in our Wake.

Protect through TSUN, and we will make our Enemies unable to withstand our
Might.

## Table of Contents

- Foreword
- [Into The Frozen Mists: Hjaalmarch and Its History](./26pxho)
- [The Ice City of the Lowest Marshes: Snowhawk](./29l3tr)
- [The Hamlet of the Gelid Mire: Morthal](./2i3543)
- Shalidor’s Grand Maze: Labryinthian
- Diverse Tribes and Cultures of the Hjaal
- Myths and Legends of Hjaalmarch

## Foreword

The First Edition to the A Pocket Guide to Skyrim and Its Environs, Hjaalmarch
was released along with the other volumes of its series in the latter years of
the Second Era, commissioned by Emperor Tiber Septim in the year 285 to document
the various regions of the province of Skyrim in a similar way the newly
released A Pocket Guide to the Empire and its Environs, First Edition did so for
the entirety of Tamriel.[^1] Tiber believed that the people of his growing
Empire needed to know the histories and people of their border-natives in full
detail, and thus over one thousand copies of the book was sold to the public.

The success of these guides (which spawned similar versions for the other
provinces) brought surprise adoration to the Empire, resulting in the new Septim
Dynasty to be congratulated by the people as a whole. However, the Imperial
Geographic Society neglected from releasing new revisions to these guides and
soon confusion arose amongst the people of other provinces as they traveled
expecting sights and descriptions long since outdated. Some other
organizations[^2] attempted to create new guides, to various degrees of success.

The Second Edition of A Pocket Guide to Skyrim and Its Environs, Hjaalmarch has
been banned by the Imperial Geographic Society for viewing by the citizenry of
Tamriel for grammatical issues as well as faulty scholarship and radical
ideals.[^3]

With new changes in both Tamriel and Skyrim in the recent years of the Third
Era, the Emperor has requested that a new series of Skyrim-centric pocket guides
be written and published to educate the common Tamrielian about the different
landscapes and peoples of the realms of our unified land[^4], and of course the
IGS was called upon again to write it. Much of the propagandistic tone for
Skyrim has been removed[^5], and more in-depth views into each of the Holds have
been both added and updated.

Now, let us begin with the true history of Hjaalmarch, and its founding as a
hold of Skyrim.

> **Editor’s Note by Eis Vuur Warden:** At the request of Emperor Uriel Septim V
> and High King Torbarik Wolf-Arm I have agreed upon annotating and inserting
> certain sections within this pocket guide before final approval for print. I
> suppose I should be grateful for this opportunity to work on a project this
> grand, but I must confess that I find it bland and to easy for my tastes.
> Nevertheless, I hope these notes (which there shall be few if any at all; like
> I said, I find this task boring) aid the younger members of the Imperial
> Geographic Society and show them how true scholarly research is professionally
> done. Enjoy.

---

[^1]: In all honesty, old Septim really had this pocket guide released to appease
the growing Nord population that were becoming a bit too rowdy under his rule.
[^2]: Looking at you, Imperial Office of Foreign Affairs. Bunch of idiots, all
of them.
[^3]: This is actually true, although you might want to rephrase it. I’ve read
the Second Edition, and there was a lot more wrong with it than that.
[^4]: Tamriel is unified? Since when exactly? Someone needs to re-edit this.
[^5]: Minotaur crap and you all know it, but I suppose this can stay in. A
little propaganda can go a long way and be useful in the outcome, you know.
