---
title: Untold Legends
subtitle: The Other Lives of Ysgramor
reddit: 26za4h
author: william_door
date: 2014-05-31T20:13:44Z
---

\[A book bound in black leather, most of it’s words lost to the ravages of time.
The fragments that remain show a glimpse into the forgotten past of man, and the
untold legends of its greatest hero.\]

As the great ships of men crawled the waves to their destinies, there were,
after long years, a number of tales lost in the mists of morning. Even after the
forgetting though, wisps of story find ways to receptive ears as even the
deepest of secrets never truly dies. When fires burn and the night grows soft in
the encampments of men, tales of the King-Father echo through the mouths of men.

## Page 3

Follwing the assasination of King Heoroth, at the hands of the Normiir
Witch-King, whose shadow was Mora, Ysgramor was taken prisoner, guilty of
loyalty to the Lord of the First Men. The Sons of Men, backed by the allegiance
of the Dov, repelled the Witch-King and his forces. Alas, Ysgramor would not see
the light of day, nor know the cool waters of his kingdom for seven long years
of fighting.

## Page 5

His retreating captors, fearful of Ysgramor’s vengeance, caged the
Heir-of-Jelkurfyk and tossed him to the icy sea to drown. Deep in the grave,
Ysgramor found dark truths, which he strung together into the ship Salvation.

## Page 10

The Old Wood, true home of heroes, lay in ruin. Ysgramor took refuge in the gift
of his father, the Sea of Ghosts. Fearing no kingdom would be left for his sons,
he sought the southern edge of the world, a vast and wild country of danger.

Trapped among storm-serpents and ice-wraiths, surrounded by the mists, Ysgramor
was guided by the specter of his father, King Ysmulven. “The Sea shall carry
your burden and grant you her bounty, but no victory comes without price.” The
King-In-Death took the form of a great dragon, delivering the his son’s fleet to
Shore with the gales of his wings.

## Page 17

Nokmariin arrived to the Twice-Crowned King, weaving dark visions. The bloated
corpse of Yngol rose from the Sea of Ghosts, suspended by writhing rivers and
weeds. “All men must die Ysmir, and the dead shall be forgotten.” The Great
Dragon, whose heart was Heart-Robbed Shor, rose against the foul God of the Sea.
“Though I perish, I persist. I shall hold the dead in hollowed halls; Glory
greater than death. This is my promise to you.”

## Page 19

Ysmir, whose name was Ysmaalithax, gathered his Companions. Chief among them was
Hans of Alunjerviir, who Ysmaalithax named Fox. It was Hans who taught us to
hunger for the blood of Mer, and to understand the power of righteous anger. As
the sun rose over the Ghost-Sea, the ships readied themselves for debts owed and
the promise of tomorrow.
