---
title: The True Nature of Alduin the World-Eater
reddit: 27a8wb
author: Mathemagics15
date: 2014-06-04T11:52:34Z
pseudonym: Vokriiwuth of Solstheim, 2E 581
about: |
  So, I’ve seen some of you folks publishing your theorycrafting in “book form”,
  and I decided to give that a shot as well. Bear with me, please, this is my
  first attempt at any such thing.
---

> This tome was found hidden in the ruins of Labyrinthian in a chest, presumably
> untouched since the time it was written. Seemingly, during the interregnum, a
> Cult dedicated to the worship of Dragons was founded by a mysterious Nord
> Mage, based on the principles of the Dragon Cult of ancient Skyrim. The order
> died out eventually, but some of it’s texts have survived to this day, and now
> hold a place in the imperial library.

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

In the mythic past, after King Shor was knocked out of the sky by Orkey, and
Kaan's tears fell to the earth in grief, the profane elvish spirit whose name
was Auriel selfishly plotted to end all Creation. His was Aka, Time, and Shor's
was Lork, Limit. Auriel thought that He might bring about the End Times earlier
than what-was-right, by using Dead-God Shor's power of Limit on his own soul,
Time.

However, Auriel found that wielding Lork was not simple, even with the Heart in
His possession, and thus He decided to give the End Times form and shape,
splitting His soul in pieces to create a Doom-Driven Harbinger to bring about
the End for Him.

The Wandering Gods, allies of Shor, had been exiled to the Sky by Auriel in
defeat, forced now to wander the Heavens as Planets while Men suffered on the
earth. Auriel Himself was their jailor, and He saw that each of the Gods had
sent an animal to the earth, to test and inspire Men.

Thus He decided to do the same, and create a beast so mighty that nothing could
stand against it. He gave it the virtues of each animal:

```verse
Loyal like the Wolf, Mara, who was the Handmaiden of Kaan.
Strong and noble like the Bear, Stuhn, who had survived the War.
Endurant like the Whale, Tsun, who had endured even Death.
Decisive like the Hawk, Kaan-who-is-Kyne, Warrior-Wife of Shor.
Wise like the Owl, Jhunal, the first Magus of Men.
Beautiful like the Moth, Dibella, the Maiden of Creativity.
Subtle like the Snake, Dead-God Shor of Sovngarde.
Cunning like the Fox, whose God was the Wandering Ghost of the Snake.
```

And Auriel did split His soul, and used it to give life to His creature, whom He
named Dragon, king of all beasts and creatures, Serpent-Hawk and Wanderer of
Land, Sea and Sky. And with his power of Aka, Auriel made the creature eternal
and immortal. And the creature spoke a name with the Voice of the Hawk Goddess,
and it was Al-Du-In. Destroyer-Devour-Master.

And from Alduin came the Other Dragons, and Al-Du-In called them the Dov. And
they went from Akavir, which is Dragon Land, and they tried to unmake the World.
But the Akaviri only cut them down from the skies with their blades, arrows and
magic, and though Al-Du-In raised the Dragons when they fell, he grew tired of
this and fled.

Alduin, whose very name meant the End Times, realized He was not only Alduin,
but a living, breathing beast with the ability to Choose. And He decided to defy
His father Auriel, who so wrongly had tried to usher in the Early End, and He
did speak with His Hawk-Blessed-Voice to the Dov: **"Bormahu, Our Father, has
wronged the Missing God and all the Gods, to whom We also owe Our birth. Let us
go onto Man and teach them Civilization, and guide them to a Good Time, not the
End Time. For I am Al-Du-In, not Auriel, not Aka, nor any other, and that which
I will Destroy and Devour shall not be the World, whose Master I shall be."**

And thus, we give to Alduin our Praises, for only through His Wisdom and Noble
Mercy, and the Bravery to defy His Father, does the Legacy of Shor live on, and
the World remains.
