---
title: Sanguine, Sanguinare Vampiris
reddit: 27f4ry
author: RideTheLine
date: 2014-06-05T22:02:35Z
---

An expansion of my ideas in a comment on a [previous thread][0].

Sanguine means “cheerful optimism” or “bloody”. Both of which, I think, tie well
into vampirism and the Lord of Fun.

Vampirism isn’t Molag Bal’s domain. He created it, but then kinda threw it into
the public domain. _Skyrim_ gives us a strain of vampirism attributed to
Clavicus Vile. The _Oblivion_ expansion _Mehrunes Razor_ has vampires under the
will of Dagon. And we often see vampirism spread through disease, which is the
domain of Peryite. But why would Sanguine join in the fun? Because vampires are
very, well, sanguine.

Vampirism comes in countless strands, so it makes sense for their to not be a
consistent temperament between vampires. Real-world mythology paints vampires as
creatures of the night, the time when most debauchery takes place. Vampires are
also key figures to take in excess. They’re dead, they have no constitution
score (for those of us who play D&D). They’d be immune to the effects of
alcohol, allowing them to drink to their heart’s content. Food is very much the
same, as they are only truly fed by blood, so they could eat forever.

The biggest thing is sex. Sanguine loves rampant fornication, it’s considered
one of the highest forms of excess. Literature often portrays vampires with
themes of eroticism, and alien charm. We’ve seen vampires as lustful creatures
who take women (or men, I guess) to bed all the time. Elder Scrolls seems to
have taken this theme up, as vampirism often gives the character charm
abilities, even going so far as to label them “Vampire’s Seduction.”

I made a post on [Tarot](./1zdlda) where I listed Sanguine as the Devil. That
card has a lot of Judeo-Christian imagery and themes, which would help the idea
of Sanguine being involved with vampires, as vampires embody the seven sins.

- Wrath, as vampires kill to survive.
- Lust, as I’ve already said, they’re erotic creatures.
- Envy, as they take their life from others.
- Greed, as the examination of a vampire den should be evident of this.
- Gluttony, as they can eat and drink forever.
- Sloth, as they live forever and have no need to accomplish anything.

Vampires are also hunted during inquisitions, so they definitely tie into
Abrahamic faith.

[0]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/278u0p/confusion_on_the_origins_of_vampirism/
