---
title: Debunking “Trinmalarkay”
reddit: 27gcb4
author: Mdnthrvst
date: 2014-06-06T07:28:46Z
---

For some reason, some of you seem to think that Aedric Plane(t)s can now
simultaneously be Daedric Princes. I would have thought the patent lunacy of
such a statement would speak for itself, but apparently not.

To recap:

> _The Thirty-Six Lessons of Vivec: Sermon Three_{:tag="cite"}
>
> A Dwemer said, “We Dwemer are only aspirants to this that the Velothi have.
> They shall be our doom in this and the eight known worlds, NIRN, LHKAN, RKHET,
> THENDR, KYNRT, AKHAT, MHARA, and JHUNAL.” The secret to doom is within this
> Sermon.

In this Sermon, Vivec recounts a Dwemer listing the Planets of Mundus. RKHET is
the important one here – in addition to Nirn, and excluding Dibella and Zenithar
for reasons that are presently irrelevant, _Arkay is listed as one of the
Dominion Planets of the Aedra._ That would make his Aedric nature beyond debate,
right? Dear God, I hope so.

> _16 Accords of Madness, v. XII_{:tag="cite"}
>
> It was here that Sheogorath performed certain rites that summoned Malacath,
> and the two Daedric Lords held court in the presence of the disfigured corpse.

In this Accord, Malacath and Sheogorath are clearly considered to be Daedric
equals. Malacath, as everyone _should_ know, is the Daedric Prince of the
spurned and ostracized, created from the reanimated dung that was Trinimac after
his consumption by Boethiah shortly before the Velothi Exodus. That no other
Prince “accepts” him as a “true” Daedroth is both appropriate to his sphere and
rather hypocritical in a few cases.

After all, Mehrunes Dagon was the Leaper Demon King, Molag Bal was the Ruddy
Man, King of the Dreughs, Sheogorath was a prisoner in the Imperial City, and
Meridia was a Magne-Ge. If Malacath is not a “true” Daedroth, then neither are
they. Naturally, that’s not true. _Non-Daedric entities can be transformed into
Princes of Oblivion._ This is not up for debate.

However, none of that has mattered for some scholars who find the negation of
Malacath’s Daedric nature useful for their own purposes.

And what purposes are those? Well, apparently someone decided that Malacath the
Daedric Prince of curses and Arkay the Dominion Plane(t) of burial rites are the
same being.

As far as I can tell, these are their justifications.

> _Varieties of Faith: The Nords_{:tag="cite"}
>
> Orkey (Old Knocker):
>
> God of mortality, Orkey combines aspects of Mauloch and Arkay. He is a
> “loan-god” for the Nords, who seem to have taken up his worship during Aldmeri
> rule of Atmora. Nords believe they once lived as long as Elves until Orkey
> appeared; through heathen trickery, he fooled them into a bargain that “bound
> them to the count of winters.” At one time, legends say, Nords only had a
> lifespan of six years due to Orkey’s foul magic. Then Shor showed up and,
> through unknown means, removed the curse, throwing most of it onto the nearby
> Orcs.

So Nords encountered the Aldmeri (Nordic for “automatically bad”) concept of
Arkay, anon Xarxes, who is responsible for recording the lives and histories of
the Aldmer, and conflated him with Mauloch, God of Curses, in an attempt to make
sense of the baffling lifespan discrepancies of Aldmer, Nords, and Orcs in one
fell swoop. Note that this is solely the Nordic view; Altmer, Velothi, and
Orsimer alike have no need for such a syncretism of Arkay and Malacath, and thus
do not recognize it.

How can I be so sure that Xarxes is Arkay? Well,
[there’s a whole book about it.](https://www.imperial-library.info/content/tuwhacca-arkay-xarxes)

> _He is supposedly the keeper of the Bloody Curse which sounds an awful lot
> like mortality. His is the Ashpit, and ashes in TES are usually associated
> with Death_

Ashes are _always_ associated with death. The Bloody Curse was the
transformation of Aldmer into Orsimer, not the universal notion of “death”.
There is simply no support for this connection anywhere.

In conclusion, Arkay is the Imperial Aedroth of burial rites, who is connected
to Xarxes, the Scribe of the Aldmer, and from this mythopoeic kinship, and a
spot of poor spelling, the Nords of Atmora conflated “Arkay the elven death god”
with “Mauloch the Orcish god of curses”, with the ingeniously idiotic term of
“Orkey”. From this, some _esteemed_ scholars decided that Arkay and Malacath
(and thus Trinimac) are all the same thing.

Never mind the fact that Xarxes and Trinimac are _both_ listed, side-by-side,
[in all Aldmeri pantheons.](https://www.imperial-library.info/content/varieties-faith-high-elves)

Never mind the fact that the planet RKHET exists within Mundus while Ashpit
exists within Oblivion.

Such discrepancies apparently don’t matter anymore.
