---
title: The Journal of Prince Camarril
reddit: 27i0et
author: phil_hinds
date: 2014-06-06T20:46:24Z
---

> After Alessia Ottus’ death in Evening Star of the 18th year of the Fourth Era,
> the contents of her estate were split between the Synod, the College of
> Whispers, the Imperial Library and His Grace, Emperor Titus Mede. After being
> granted access to the former scholar’s house, I stumbled upon a strongbox
> that, bizarrely, had been left behind. I opened it, and numerous tomes were
> discovered inside of which I had never set eyes on before. A journal, its
> cover made from red silk, caught my attention. The first half of the tome has
> had half of it’s pages torn out. Below are the contents I were able to
> transcribe.

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

## 15 Morning Star, 3E 1

Oh, how it pains me to not write CE. Ever since that brigand Early-Beard stole
my place upon the Ruby Throne, my life has been terrible. That’s right, I,
Camarril Trebates, am the true Emperor of Cyrodiil, not that oaf.

And he’s even given himself a Cyrodillic name to “legitamise” his cause. _Tiber
Septim_ he calls himself. Ha, more like Tiber _Septic_.

He even had the audacity to sack Reman Cyrodiil’s tomb to retrieve the Amulet of
Kings. Divines know what Daedric magic he must have cast upon it for him to wear
it.

My family has ruled over Cyrodiil since the Trilliance War, and while times may
not have been as good as we had hoped, the Trebates Dynasty would have done a
better job in the long run than anything the _Septim Dynasty_ will ever do.

## 16 Morning Star, 3E 1

The “Emperor” requested my attendance in his court this morning. He offered me
the title of Prince and a seat upon the Elder Council. I told him I would think
about it. Zurin was stood at his side. I guess we now know where his allegiances
lay, the traitorous bastard.

## 17 Morning Star, 3E 1

He came while I was sleeping……that bastard…….if anyone finds this journal, know
that Z _(The rest of the page is soaked in blood, and the rest of the text is
undecipherable.)_
