---
title: The Daedric Doctrines
subtitle: Weaver of the Panolpy
reddit: 27nbs2
author: RideTheLine
date: 2014-06-08T21:51:58Z
---

> Close your eyes Look deep in your soul Step outside yourself And let your mind
> go Frozen eyes stare deep in your mind as you die
>
> _Slayer (Seasons In the Abyss)_{:tag="cite"}

My research has led me to believe that Vaermina is a deity so misunderstood that
she warrants empathy from even Malacath. Like my previous subject, Hircine, she
comes off as very one-dimensional, and needs some exploration.

The first thing I noticed was her titles. She’s been referred to as the Gifter
and Weaver of the Panolpy. Hardly sounds like something befitting the patron of
terror. Now, I didn’t know what a panolpy was, so I’ll just presume some of you
don’t either. Pan-o-ply: a group or collection that is impressive because it is
so big or because it includes so many different kinds of people or things Sounds
interesting when you consider the idea that (Credit goes to /u/Jaridase_Zasmyocl
for this
[idea][0]
Quagmire is a collection of memories.

Vaermina represents nightmares, and her titles of the Gifter and Weaver of the
Panolpy.

## Nightmares

Nightmares, in our world, are horrific dreams created from our own memories.
It’s your inner fears and doubts coming forward and punching you in the ego as
you sleep. You can’t dream a face you’ve never seen before, nightmares are
comprised entirely of our own minds and memories. It’s like facing your inner
demons.

A nightmare is a brutal introspection. Those parts of you that you’re afraid to
face are brought forth. And strength comes from defeating these weaknesses.
Conquering your fears in your mind will allow you to conquer your fears in life.
Vaermina allows us to overcome ourselves by defeating the beats that lie in
wait, coated in our innermost fears.

## The Gifter

Odd title for a “bad” Daedra. Vaermina is, I believe, benevolent towards those
who don’t delegate her to the corner of being a big, bad witch.

Nightmares in the Elder Scrolls universe are a tad different than real ones. A
nightmare occurs when a mortal mind is pulled into Quagmire, and is tormented by
the ever-shifting terrors of the plane. Vaermina forces people to face
themselves. Vaermina’s domain is universal, everyone has nightmares, from kings
to peasants to dogs. She casts her gift to every living creature, and prevents
us from succumbing to our inner weaknesses. A world without Vaermina would be a
world where everyone stays inside all day in fear of, well, everything.

The Skull of Corruption always struck me as odd. Cloning people doesn’t sound
like a nightmare. The staff forms an angry clone of the target so it may face
itself while awake. The clone is you, but hostile. Defeating your clone is
defeating yourself. The Skull is another tool in the path to greatness.

The Dreamstride is a strange one. What little we’ve seen of its use allows the
user to enter dreams of another. The transportation may have been a use
discovered by mortals. Entering the mind of someone else would allow you to
defeat their fears once you’ve conquered your own. Vaermina provides us with
much to train ourselves, it seems. What an “evil” Daedra indeed.

## Weaver of the Panolpy

This was really interesting. What “panolpy” could she weave? Well, all
nightmares take place in Quagmire, which may be a conglomerate of memories. She
weaves a gestalt of minds, in a sense.

Upon death, memories are dumped into the ocean, but not before Vaermina takes
her pick of things she finds interesting. Each death provides her with more
material to test people with in Quagmire. She is the filter we are run through,
she is the result all mortal life builds together. Vaermina teaches us
cooperation, in this way. All our memories are shares within her realm, we may
all benefit from each other. The enlightened follower of the doctrines knows to
use others for his benefit, and tries to leave them unharmed, for we are all
one.

## Conclusion

Vaermina is sadly undeveloped. If they were to make an entire game about her, I
wouldn’t be upset. She could use some fleshing out. She lets us learn from
ourselves, and from each other. She’s truly misunderstood, and could use a hug.
Let’s all make an effort to be nice to Vaermina.

> Woeful people with pale faces Staring obsessed at the moon Some memories will
> never go away And they will forever be here
>
> _Mayhem (Pagan Fears)_{:tag="cite"}

[0]:
