---
series: The Rape of the Reach, or the Myth of Red Eagle
part: 5
title: Héstram Fights the Kings
reddit: 27ts51
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-06-10T22:32:12Z
---

> Translator’s note: The rest of the story contains multiple combat scenes
> between kings and queens. It is likely that these persons (if anything more
> than a literary creation or myth-echo) never entered in one-on-one combat. The
> ancient Reachmen shared the same sentiment about their leaders with the Nords,
> namely that victory and defeat are the responsibility of the king/general. The
> combat should be seen as an allegory.

{:tag=_aside_{:tag="q"} .foreword}

The new day dawned, and Héstram entered the Reach. She swept through the Reach,
facing the kings in a sequence she saw fit.

The first king to meet her was Renach of Karth. Their armies fought from dawn
till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every
man slain from Renach, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion,
and Renach all of his men.

_Let us meet face to face, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and
mine are dead._{:tag="q"} said Renach.

_You are right to say that, king of Karth. If this is what you want, then let’s
do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Renach wore one sword in his hand, and one shield
in the other, and Héstram had weapons to match. Renach wore plate mail of solid
gold, and Héstram wore armour to match, only her Gold was white in colour. They
fought from noon till dusk. In this time they only struck true, but had a
defence to match. None of them shed blood from the other. When the sun was about
to set, Renach let his guard drop, and Héstram jumped on his shield, cutting
into Renach’s face. Her sword scraped of Renach’s skin [so that no one might
recognise his life time]. Blood spurted from his face, soaking his armour and
that of Héstram.

_That was quick thinking, woman,_{:tag="q"} said Renach.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship Kai, so that he might have
you show age again._{:tag="q"}

He kneeled before her, and this is how Karth fell to the Empire.

The next king she met was Mashuig of Dráchstáir. Their armies fought from dawn
till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every
men slain from Mashuig, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion,
and Mashuig all of his men.

_Let us settle this one on one, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat,
and mine are dead,_{:tag="q"} said Mashuig.

_You are right to say that, king of Dráchstáir. If this is what you want, then
let’s do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Mashuig wore a bow the size of a grow man, and a
quiver with enough arrows to cover the Reach. Héstram wore the same armour and
arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.

They fought from noon till dusk. Every shot of Mashuig was on point, but Héstram
had a defence to match, and drew closer to Mashuig. Neither drew blood from the
other. When the sun was about to set, Héstram threw her shield into the ground
in front of Mashuig, startling him. She jumped forward, and poked out his eyes
[so that he might never recognise the needy]. Blood spurted out of his empty
sockets, soaking his armour and that of Héstram.

_That was a swift move, woman,_{:tag="q"} said Mashuig.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship Shtaerr, that he might heal
your eyes._{:tag="q"}

He kneeled before her, and this is how Dráchstáir fell to the Empire.

The next king she met was Cíer of the Leap. Their armies fought from dawn till
midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and from every man
slain from Cíer, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and
Cíer all of his men.

_Let us settle this in combat, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat,
and mine are dead,_{:tag="q"} said Cíer.

_You are right to say that, king of the Leap. If this is what you want, then
let’s do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Cíer wore chainmail, and a lance of solid iron four
times his size. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold
had regained its white colour.

They fought from noon till dusk. Every jab and thrust of Cíer was on point, but
Héstram had a defence to match. Every thrust took a chip of Cíer’s spear.
Neither drew blood from the other. When the sun was about to set, Cíer’s spear
had been chipped of to a stump. Héstram knocked it away with her shield, and cut
off his Thrust-Arm [so that he might never decide between life and death again].
Blood spurted out of the shoulder-stump, soaking his armour and that of Héstram.

_That was a deciding blow, woman,_{:tag="q"} said Cíer.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship Úrci, that he might heal your
arm._{:tag="q"}

He kneeled before her, and that is how the Leap fell to the Empire.

The next king she met was Fernhete of Sian Háirgramen. Their armies fought from
dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and from
every man slain from Fernhete, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a
battalion, and Fernhete all of his men.

_Let us settle this by ourselves, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat,
and mine are dead,_{:tag="q"} said Fernhete.

_You are right to say that, king of Sian Háirgramen. If this is what you want,
then let’s do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Fernhete wore a gold and blue robe, laid with
radiant gems. In every hand burned fire and lightning, and his eyes shot frost.
Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its
white colour.

They fought from noon till dusk. Every spell from Fernhete was true to hit, but
Héstram had a defence to match. Neither drew blood from the other. When the sun
was about to set, Fernhete lost his magicka, and his spells became less potent.
Héstram rushed forwards and pierced his skull with her sword [so that his mind
might never work the same again]. Blood spurted out of the head wound, soaking
his armour and that of Héstram.

_That was a wise move, woman,_{:tag="q"} said Fernhete.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship Julach, so that he might heal
your head._{:tag="q"}

He kneeled before her, and that is how Sian Háirgramen fell to the Empire.

The next king she met was Huithar of Karthwasten. Their armies fought from dawn
till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and from
every man slain from Huithar, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a
battalion, and Huithar all of his men.

_Let us settle this as kings, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and
mine are dead,_{:tag="q"} said Huithar.

_You are right to say that, king of Karthwasten. If this is what you want, then
let’s do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Huithar wore a iron breastplate, and in each hand a
sword made of bone. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the
Gold had regained its white colour.

They fought from noon till dusk. Every sword-feat of Huithar was sure to hit,
but Héstram had a defence to match. Neither drew blood from the other. When the
sun was about to set, Huithar became exhausted, and could barely lift his arms.
Héstram disarmed him with her shield, and cut of his hands with her sword [so
that he might never protect craftsmen again]. Blood spurted from his wrists,
soaking his armour, and that of Héstram.

_that was a safe move, woman,_{:tag="q"} said Huithar.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship Zened, so that he might heal
your hand._{:tag="q"}

He kneeled before her, and that was how Karthwasten fell to the Empire.

The next king she met was Fedelm of Réchthabd. Their armies fought from dawn
till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every
man slain from Fedelm, she slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion,
and Fedelm all of her men.

_Let us settle this as proud women should, queen of the South, for your men are
deadbeat, and mine dead,_{:tag="q"} said Fedelm.

_You are right to say that, queen of Réchthabd. If this is what you want, then
let’s do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Fedelm wore a armour of glass, which reflected the
sky, and on her back were enough javelins to have five grown men collapse from
sorrow. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the Gold had
regained its white colour.

They fought from noon till dusk. Every javelin was sure to hit, but Héstram had
a defence to match. Neither drew blood from the other. When the sun was about to
set, Fedelm ran out of javelins. Héstram had drawn closer and cut of Fedelm’s
feet [so that she might lose her connection to the woods]. Blood spurted from
her legs, soaking her armour and that of Héstram.

_That was a vengeful action, woman,_{:tag="q"} said Fedelm.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship Cneréc, so that she might
heal your feet._{:tag="q"}

She kneeled before her, and that was how Réchthabd fell to the Empire.

The next king she met was Máithramail of Némach. Their armies fought from dawn
till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for every
man slain from Máithramail, she slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a
battalion, and Máithramail all of her men.

_Let us settle this between us, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat,
and mine are dead,_{:tag="q"} said Máithramail.

_You are right to say that, queen of Némach. If this is what you want, then
let’s do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Máithramail wore a motherly robe, and held a
claymore in her hands the size of a grown man, and never bloodied. Héstram wore
the same armour or arms as earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.

They fought from noon till dusk. Every swing of Máithramail kept her enemy at
bay, but Héstram had a defence to match. When the sun was about to set,
Máithramail misjudged Héstram’s shield arm, and Héstram knocked her claymore
away. Héstram swung, and cut off her breasts [so that she might never suckle a
baby again]. Blood spurted from her chest, soaking her armour, and that of
Héstram.

_That was a correcting slash, woman._{:tag="q"} said Máithramail.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship Marr, so that she might heal
your breast._{:tag="q"}

She kneeled before her, and that was how Némach fell to the Empire.

The next king she met was Balgadb of Badb. Their armies fought from dawn till
midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and from every man
slain from Balgadb, she slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a battalion, and
Balgadb all of her men.

_Let us settle this with skill, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat,
and mine are dead,_{:tag="q"} said Balgadb.

_You are right to say that, queen of Badb. If this is what you want, then let’s
do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Balgadb wore a leather suit, which she wore as a
skin, so that it did not impair her movement. In each hand she held a dagger,
which was poisoned. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as earlier, but the
Gold had regained its white colour.

They fought from noon till dusk. Balgadb dodged Héstram’s every move, and struck
at every angle, but Héstram had a defence to match. When the sun was about to
set, Balgadb thought she was sure to hit. Héstram duck to the ground, and
thrusted her sword up Balgadb nether regions [so that she might never over the
friendship of her thighs again]. Blood spurted from her belly soaking her armour
and that of Héstram.

_That was a passionate thrust, woman._{:tag="q"} said Balgadb.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship Debhellach, so that she might
heal your nether regions._{:tag="q"}

She kneeled before her, and that was how Badb fell to the Empire.

The next king she met was Léech of Sian Spír Flach. Their armies fought from
dawn till midday, and for every man slain from Héstram, she slew eight, and for
every man slain from Léech, he slew nine. At midday, Héstram lost half a
battalion, and Léech all of his men.

_Let us settle this in blood, queen of the South, for your men are deadbeat, and
mine are dead,_{:tag="q"} said Léech.

_You are right to say that, king of Sian Spír Flach. If this is what you want,
then let’s do this,_{:tag="q"} answered Héstram.

They met each other at noon. Léech wore nothing at all, standing only in flesh
before the queen. His hands were empty. Héstram wore the same armour and arms as
earlier, but the Gold had regained its white colour.

They fought from noon till dusk. Every hit of Héstram struck Léech, but he kept
standing. Every hit of Léech was sure to hit, but Héstram had a defence to
match. Only Léech was bloodied. when the sun was about to set, Léech could not
take much more. Héstram plunged her sword in his Heart [which wasn’t really
there] and cleaved him in half. Blood spurted from his entire body, soaking his
skin and that of Héstram, for it seeped into her armour.

_That was a killing blow,_{:tag="q"} said Léech.

Héstram replied: _resend your Old Gods and worship none of my, so that they
might not smite you any more._{:tag="q"}

He kneeled before her before he died, and that was how Sian Spír Flach fell to
the Empire.

Only the Remainder of the Reach remained now, to which Héstram travelled.
