---
series: Vaermina’s Arena
part: 2
title: The Wolf and the Steed
reddit: 2813lb
author: Impetrong
date: 2014-06-13T05:36:38Z
---

Thunder died down in the Spectator’s mind. Before him was a plane of infinite
width and length, on its infinite edges laid a dense forest of grass. He was
looking ascendant. To a blue sky. That had no sun.

The voice of torment awoke in his mind.

“You lie in the comfortable grass and feel the downward flow of crisp wind into
your open pores. You fill yourself with that liquefying substance you call air
and begin to ascend to a heavenly form above the sky.

Your bliss is unfounded. The blades of grass pull your skin from its levitating
form. Skin separates and releases your ichor to water the plain’s pungent roots.
Sprouts grow into your pulsing veins, parasites of the grass find themselves
hollowing into your marrow. The tread of paw and hoof emerges in your
disembodied ears, lying from your head, slowly being cut off by the beetles
gorging on your nerves.”

At this, the Spectator felt the rumbling of eight legs, four for each. One being
to his left, the other to his right. They grew simultaneously in their volume
but the right was heavier.

A nicker of pain emerged from the right, and a soft growl of hurt emerged from
the left. The Spectator knew this right-sound, for he knew its caller. The
Spectator knew this left-sound, for he knew its caller. The beings entered his
field of view.

To his left was a silver lupine head, with a streak of brilliant white
descending from the bearer’s thin lips out of frame. Fur matted with a thousand
flies and a million blades covered the head, and blood leaked from an ajar
wound.

To his right was a high steed, whose coat was golden, but a muzzle of black and
necrotic flesh mutated its visage. The flesh peeled away in rapid cycles of
exposure, decay, and sloughing, and fell upon the blades of grass aching for
its organic scraps.

The voice of torment awoke in his mind.

“Grellan and the War Master. Two noble companions, destined for death. Let me
show you what happens upon the first Sin of your People. This is sin that begins
all others, that which your kind despises. Funny how by its grasp you fallen
into my hands - for it is the Sin of Weakness.”

At this, the two beasts howled in fervent pain and cast their eyes on the other.
They were both equally weakened, fearful of the other. Fearful of the three Sins
that would manifest itself in the other.

The decision to strike was simultaneous, both beasts were only so noble. Grellan
lept for the throat of the War Master, for any bite of the muzzle would be
poison. The War Master lifted its foreleg in a strike on Grellan’s shoulder,
for any strike of his brilliant underbelly would be poison. The collision of
both left Grellan the first spar’s victor, for he was luckier than most. He held
onto the War Master, feeling the screams of agony escape the War Master’s
throat.

As the War Master’ pain grew, so too did the muzzle of black flesh. The flesh
rapidly spread around his head and down his neck as he attempted to shake off
Grellan. When the flesh touched the wolf’s fangs, they fell off and released the
grip.

Grellan fell into the blades, which painted with pain the brilliant whiteness
further up his body. The War Master raised its hoof and brought it down on
Grellan’s paw, shattering the bone - yet the white brilliance seared the hoof of
the War Master and caused it to back away in fear.

Grellan rose and the War Master rallied. They stood across from each other,
still mostly themselves and ready to end in noble combat.

The voice of torment awoke in his mind.

“Your companions are now mine. Their traces of un-sin are now less than sin.” At
this, Grellan’s brilliance covered his entire body save his head and back, the
War Master’s black flesh covered his entire body save his legs and tail. “Let
them now spar one final time, to see the victor.”

Grellan and the War Master rushed towards each other - the Wolf leaping, the
Steed sprinting. The Head bit into the Leg, and brilliance met blackness. Both
beasts lay dead over the immobile body of the Spectator. The mouth of the Wolf
opened to reveal the blood wound of the Horse - a single rose.

Lightning charred the rose.
