---
title: Cultural Diversity in Hammerfell
subtitle: The Tseeleei
reddit: 285jrr
author: fargoniac
date: 2014-06-14T20:22:42Z
pseudonym: Jaganvir Ibn Rihadh, Court Scribe of Rihad
---

The Tseeleei (pronounced Sheelii) are a semi-nomadic community of Argonians
living in the deserts outside Rihad. Talented alchemists, they trace their
history back to the Vagabonds of Thorn, Thorn's arena team hired by Kintyra I
Septim to crush a religious revolt in Rihad. They settled the area, mixing with
the Redguard culture to create a unique people.

Tseeleei culture is very much a fusion of Redguard and Agaceph Argonian
cultures. New parents traditionally bought Hist Sap from merchants, but due to
the rise of the An-Xileel, and even after their fall, new mothers go to Black
Marsh to collect Hist Sap and ritually mix it with sand from the Alik’r desert
before feeding it to the newborn child. This gives the Tseeleei their
distinctive yellow scales, as well as strengthening their sacred ties with the
Desert.

The Tseeleei are a clan-based society, and are in many ways similar to the
Ashlanders of Morrowind. They migrate seasonally from the hilly areas to the
lowlands in Winter, and vice versa. Their houses are tents made out of camel
bone and hides. They herd goats, specifically a variety adapted to the desert.
They speak a dialect of Redguard (“new” Yoku), and worship the Hist. They also
worship the Aedra, beleiving them to be the tenders of the Eternal Oasis, their
afterlife.

Their development of a unique cuisine is one of their greatest accomplishments,
as it is popular all across Hammerfell. Their food often consists of date juice,
camel meat, and sea salt. In their religion, camels are considered evil spirits,
and by killing them and using their corpse to the fullerst, they emulate the
triumph of good over evil. Their unique sun-cooking of camel meat and the
mixture of camel and dates is widely popular in Hammerfell.
