---
title: The Daedric Doctrines
subtitle: Keeper of the Sworn Oath and the Bloody Curse
reddit: 2888th
author: RideTheLine
date: 2014-06-15T21:20:46Z
---

> So here’s all my hopes and aspirations Nothing But Puke God, I’m So Lonely…
>
> _Strapping Young Lad (Detox)_{:tag="cite"}

There is much to learn from solitude. Malacath is the friend to the friendless
that propels us into greatness.

The patron of pariahs is more influential than my previous two subjects, so
there wasn’t as much digging and conjecture to do. However, the focus here is on
what he does for us, not his history, so don’t expect a simple summary.

Malacath is the patron deity of the Orsimer, the people who best know loneliness
and expulsion. Yet, despite the many historical accounts of them being stomped
on and plundered, they continue to strive and persevere. The Orsimer are a
strong people, and a testament to what Malacath’s lessons give us.

Malacath represents solitude, perseverance, and the Sworn Oath.

## Solitude

A powerful force (and city). In some respects, solitude represents focus, and
meditation. By oneself, he or she can think, and train. The man with a strong
will is not weakened by his deprivation of contact, he embraces it and owns it.

Even forced solitude, from expulsion, can be of benefit. Friends and valuables
are weaknesses. An enemy will strike you at where you are weakest. Just look at
villains from books and television and the like. Who did they attack, Spiderman,
or Mary Jane? Batman, or Gotham? Connections make you weak. The man with nothing
to lose cannot be harmed. Malacath teaches us strength through invincibility.
Friends die, items are stolen and broken, all outside of your power. But your
self will not break until you allow it. Malacath reminds us to always look out
for number one.

Malacath himself spurns his “allies”. He is often believed to not be an actual
Daddroth, and one of his artifacts, the Scourge, banishes Daedra.

Also, does “sensory deprivation” sound familiar around here? The ultimate form
of solitude, losing connection to the universe. Think about it.

## Perseverance

Malacath reminds us that defeat is only a push to improve. Failure is always an
option. Shit happens. Failure is only problematic when you let it defeat you.
Failure merely means that option did not work, or that approach was flawed.
Work, try something new. Even nature allows failure to happen, and modifies
itself based off of what did and did not work.

Strength comes from dominating failure. Revel in your mistakes. The Orsimer
embody this. Their homes are sacked all the time, and nearly everyone hates
them. But they continue to survive. The Orsimer do not complain about their
misfortunes, they only look forward and push on.

Malacath tests the Dunmer for physical weakness in his position in the House of
Troubles. He reminds them to be physically strong, so their enemies cannot
defeat them.

## The Sworn Oath

Now what could this be? If I’m missing something obvious please correct me
(myrrlyn, please), cuz it’s conjecture time.

Victims don’t bully each other. Malacath preaches a silent bond between the
friendless of simply leaving each other alone. Teamwork would deny solitude, and
predation would fall under another’s sphere (probably Hircine or Bal). Malacath
tells us to merely leave each other alone. Were everyone to keep to themselves,
the world would be a nicer place.

## Conclusion

Malacath is a rather simple one that I figured I would write in my bored state.
He reminds us that it’s completely okay to be alone, and that not having friends
is an advantage (that’s why I’m so strong).

> There’s nobody I can rerate to Feer rike a bird in a cage It’s kinda sihry But
> not rearry Because it’s fihring my body with rage
>
> _Kim Jong Il (Team America)_{:tag="cite"}
