---
series: Vaermina’s Arena
part: 5
title: Sixteen Limbs
reddit: 288xib
author: Impetrong
date: 2014-06-16T02:25:32Z
---

Thunder died down in the Spectator’s mind. Before him was nothing. Blackness.

The voice of torment awoke in his mind.

“You may change the path, but the destination is always the same. Know your
limits, lest you commit the Over-Sin, the Progenitor of the Sinful, the Poison
of All. The Sin of Pride.”

The Spectator attempted to speak, but was cut off.

“You now dream in my very heart, your mind is truly mine and yours. One, and the
same. Know which one controls this dream. I do.”

Blackness gave weight, as the Spectator landed on nothingness. Ten paces from
him was the Weaver of Dreams herself. Sixteen feet tall with sixteen limbs, with
sixteen weapons in each of her sixteen hands, clothed in Daedric script, adorned
with a crown of screams and torment was the Prince of Dreams and Omens.

The Spectator was naked, with the form of a brilliant yellow silhouette of a
human, eight feet tall. He took a step forward, and the voice of torment met
him.

“Know the Sin of Pride, for you believe you can end this.” He took another step
forward, limping this time.

“Know the Sin of Weakness, for you will never take the final step.” He took
another step forward, but fell as his foot rose.

“Know the Sin of Malcontent, for you seek to end this beautiful dream.” He
attempted to rise, but he only shifted forward.

“Know the Sin of Betrayal, because the Eight and One abandoned your fellow Ada.”
The Spectator put his hands to head, and screamed.

Vaermina laughed as torment was fulfilled. The Spectator continued pulling and
out came his Head and Spine. Vaermina stopped laughing. The Spectator rose on
the Head-Spine.

“Know the Sin of Betrayal, because the Implement abandoned you.” The Spectator
limped forward on the Head-Spine.

“Know the Sin of Malcontent, for you sought to keep this dream whole.” Vaermina
stepped forward, her sixteen limbs arrayed against the limping figure.

“Know the Sin of Weakness, for you will never prevent the final step.” Vaermina
slashed, thrust, spat, flamed, shot, and struck against the shadow in the dream.

“Know the Sin of Pride, for you’re a dream that is not. You may change the path,
but the destination is always the same.” Vaermina ceased. The Skull of
Corruption laid at her feet, next to it a rose.
