---
title: The Truth About The Death Of Uriel Septim VI
reddit: 28d0jt
author: phil_hinds
date: 2014-06-17T11:41:35Z
---

> **Author’s note**
>
> After the esteemed scholar Quintillius Trebates was taken to the asylum in
> Torval, his house in the Forum of Saint Martin and its contents were sold off
> to the Umbranox Dynasty of County Anvil. Count Falcedon Umbranox was kind
> enough to donate the unwanted tomes from Trebates Manor to the Imperial
> Library, and the transcription below is one such tome that Quintillius had
> written before his detention. The Imperial Library has rejected the generous
> offer from Scribe Trebates to have many copies of the tome available to the
> citizens of the City stating it is further evidence of his descent into
> madness.
>
> _**Pius Cervantes.**_{:tag="cite"}

{:tag="aside" .foreword .text-italic}

---

By Quintillius Trebates, Imperial Scribe

Praise Alessia! Praise Reman! Praise be to the Eight and One!

---

Historians often have a funny way of distorting events; like the rise of
Hialto-Arlibiea from a small mining village in County Cheydinhal to declaring
himself Tiber Celediil and placing his posterior upon the Ruby Throne, or the
unheroic death of Cephorus II from a bloody nose.

This tome will detail the truth about Uriel VI’s death, and not some
romanticized version written to moisten the loins of some ditty Colovian
noblewoman from Belene’s Rest.

It is the 22nd of Last Seed in the 320th year of the Third Era, the year of
Julianos. The Emperor returns to the Imperial City from a week out hunting in
the Great Forest with his men. His Highness crosses the Imperial Bridge over
Lake Rumare to the City Isle and offers to return all the horses to the stables.
His men hesitate to let the Emperor do it all himself, but not wanting to upset
him after such a successful hunt let him do it.

The Emperor has nearly put all the horses away, saving his own stallion, Tiber,
for last. After feeding Tiber an apple, Uriel leads the horse in the stable but
stops when he sees a small child sat on a bale of hay.

“Hello there young lady”, says Uriel, “What is thou doing inside the Royal
Stables?”

_“Forgive me, your Grace. I am but a poor girl who longs to own a fine stallion
like your own one day. I would like but an hour to stay here and admire these
fine beasts.”_

The Emperor accepts the girl’s request, and sits down on the bale of hay next to
her and begins a conversation.

What they spoke about is unknown, but what happened next was detailled by the
Bosmeri scholar Rondolin:

---

_…and the Emperor told the child her hour was up, which angered the young
Colovian and she cast an abhorrent spell at Uriel. She watched him drop his
breeches and began making love to his white stallion._

_His men, confused as to why it was taking the Emperor so long to stable the
horses, entered the Royal Stables to see Uriel moving back and forth,
traumatising Tiber. They saw a young girl maniacally laughing at the poor
Emperor. Uriel’s men, fearful she was possessed by a daedric spirit, slit her
throat and tossed her lifeless body into Lake Rumare._

_Although the girl was dead, the spell was still affecting Uriel. In an effort
to stop the spell and end Tiber’s misery, a blade pierced the white stallions
skull and let it be at peace. Unfortunately, the spell was more powerful than
they had thought it would be, and as soon as Uriel had removed himself from the
dead horse, he had entered another. The guards, disgusted with what they were
seeing, were left with a final resort, and pried him apart from the horse and
beat him to death._

_After disposing of Tiber’s carcass, the men concoted a story amongst themselves
that Uriel had died during the hunt after falling from his horse, and was
trampled on by his spooked stallion._

---

And there you have it my friend. Emperor Uriel Septim VI was not killed after
falling from his horse, but was savagely beaten to death by his own men.
