---
series: Bump in the Night
part: 1
title: Introduction to a Bestiary
reddit: 28lo2u
author: Impetrong
date: 2014-06-20T00:47:37Z
---

> Editor’s notes are denoted with footnotes.

{:tag="aside” .foreword}

First and foremost, after much debate between my idiotic publisher and I, I’ve
been forced to shorten my original title from “The Adventures of the Mighty Sera
and Spellsword of House Telvanni, Professor Rothras and his Insights into the
Nature of Things that go Bump In The Night.” to “Bump In The Night: A Bestiary.”

Apparently it’s not “economical” according to those n’wahs.[^1] I’ve made
compromises for you, reader, but know who your illustrious author is: eliminator
of three clans of vampires, two frost troll dens, forty bandits, over a thousand
zombies, and many other miscellaneous foul beasts and nefarious peoples.[^2]
Needless to say, I’ve got experience, and if you’re reading this, you need help.

You’re looking to hunt the big game. You’ve read all those pansy bestiaries and
killed everything from atronachs to zombies, but you’re not satisfied – you want
more.

Well, I’ve got you covered.[^3]

This Bestiary, catalogued by a developed path of learning,[^4] will teach you
what you need to know in order to hunt all sorts of beasties and bastards! With
my powerful tales of my conquests, you’ll learn by example exactly how to deal
with any situation – from infiltrating a cross-dressing Argonian prostituion
ring[^5] to slaying a frost troll with a headbutt.

Let’s begin with the tale of my adventures in the Reach and an encounter with
one of the most mythic and feared beasts in the whole world. No, not your
 mother-in-law, but a dragon!


[^1]: The editor has kept the majority of “Professor” Rothras’ dialogue intact
for posterity, as this authorship was published posthumously. The editor does
not hold any affiliation to the aforementioned publisher, and no major
publishing company in Tamriel reports ever having been contacted by a “Professor
Rothras” or variants thereof, and House Telvanni has denied any record of there
ever having been a Rothras. The body of Rothras was found in a cave in the north
Jerall Mountains, which had been renovated into a study and small bedroom. It
was also, obviously unbeknownst to Rothras, a troll’s hibernating den.

[^2]: No records exist affirming this claim. It should be noted that Rothras’
inventory besides his works consisted primarily of a variety of textbooks on
Tamrielic life, three copies of the Lusty Argonian Maid, and an Orcish
shortsword that disintegrated upon touch.

[^3]: The editor, having consulted a variety of combat specialists, hunters, and
bestiaries, has concluded that the wide majority of Rothras’ tales and
descriptions are at least somewhat reliable. Rothras also claims to have
discovered “26 new species, and 34 sub-species of existing species” of beasts
and a “disturbingly high amount of previously unknown factions among hostile
sentient beings.” The problem is that the wide majority of these threats are
near wholly unverifiable because they live in hostile conditions, are extremely
rare/secretive, or downright invisible. Until a time at which these discoveries
can be confirmed, it would be best that this authorship is considered a work of
fiction.

[^4]: The ordering system of Rothras is completely nonsensical, not
corresponding with any dates or alphabetical system. His earliest story is set
in 4E 176, and his last was this one.

[^5]: ~~This story has, apparently, not been notable enough to actually be
described in his works.~~ **See _Skooma Soaked In Black Marsh_
entry.**{:tag="ins"}
