---
series: The Mistress’s Awakened
part: 1
title: The Mistress Opens Our Eyes
reddit: 28nmi7
author: ASAMANNAMMEDNIGEL
date: 2014-06-20T17:19:41Z
about: |
  This piece is written as a supplement to my “Sleeping Sickness” series (Which,
  yes, I am still doing…) to give you an insight into how I think dedicated
  cultists of Vaermina act. Feel free to discuss or ask questions :)
---

The world is a lie, told to us by the gods god, and perpetuated to infinite.

You all are lulled to sleep, fearing reality. Our Mistress teaches us that we do
not know real fear. We sleep to escape it.

She is the path to wakefulness. Her gift to us is to provide us with the means
to cleave ourselves from our fears so we might see the lies for what they are.

By submitting yourself to The Mistress she takes our false memories and replaces
them with terrible fear. The uninitiated go mad and are collected by Sheogorath,
foaming at the mouth.

But you, you are not the uninitiated. That is not to say that opening your eyes
is easy or without peril. Even with the proper incantations and prayers your
mind and soul may not withstand the punishment that our Mistress bestows upon
us. But fear not! As the devout you will continue to serve her with or without a
mind. She watches over us as we sleep.

> _Cold_
>
> _Blue_
>
> _Lifeless_
>
> _Deathless_
>
> _Illuminated_
>
> _By the machines_
>
> _That hold you on this side_
>
> _Anger or fear_
>
> _So calm_
>
> _Unaffecting_
>
> _I cease to live_
>
> _I fear my infection_
>
> _Watching over your soul as you sleep_
>
> _Injecting nightmares as you sleep_
>
> _Injecting nightmares as you sleep_
>
> _Infecting nightmares as you sleep_
>
> _All I want is your purity_
>
> _All I want in this world is your mind_
>
> _The timeless place_
>
> _tamed by your psyche_
>
> _Living in the world of dreams_
>
> _Always sleeping_
>
> —Psyclon Nine, As You Sleep
