---
title: The Savage Village of Nahalaar
reddit: 29qh9g
author: Asotil
date: 2014-07-03T12:21:43Z
pseudonym: Dervyn Releth, Scholar of Winterhold
---

> Commander Althus Anillius invited me to visit his outpost on the fringes of
> Winterhold one Loredas night. He stated that one of my most popular books,
> _Scatology in Tamrielic Cultures With Regards To the Orsimer_, provided him
> with the only enjoyment he had on his understaffed and desolate island
> outpost. An outpost which, coincidentally, contained one of the most
> intriguing and least pleasant cultures I have ever seen to date.
>
> During my brief but troubled stay of two days at the Isles of Nahalaar, I
> learned as much as I could from books, eyewitness accounts and
> Tamrielic-speaking natives. Below is a summary of my findings.

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

## Geography

The Nahalaar Isles are composed of one main island and two smaller islets;
Fokraasil, Narsalath and Kelsakaar, respectively. Fokrasiil is roughly the shape
of a circle, with Narsalath split from it at the northeast. Kelsakaar, a small
crescent with its mouth facing west, is directly south of Fokraasil. It is a
relatively simple matter to travel to and from all three.

Fokraasil is completely uninhabitable, with Fort Mossmouth to the south as its
only sign of civilization. Here, Commander Anillius oversees the day-to-day
operations of his barely functioning crew. The first islet is inhabited, but
only by horkers and mudcrabs. None venture there.

Kelsakaar is the focus of our interest here. In this land is located the village
of Nahalaar, after which the entire series of islands is named. It is dominated
to the north by Kelsaakar Forest, home to a variety of hunting beasts. To the
south is the village that lends its name to the series of islands: Nahalaar.
Here, our story begins.

## Culture and Social Structure

Nahalaar Village is a very close-knit community. A Chief-Scribe leads the
village, with a council of a dozen Elders to keep his power in check. The
Chief-Scribe’s duties are name-giving, midwifery (at times), and keeping track
of bloodlines. At the bottom are the common folk, or the regular
hunter-gatherers.

Bartering and trading is still the method of exchange used in Nahalaar. Septims
are viewed as vile and idolatrous by the Elders. The natives speak and write in
a broken dialect of Nordic that my acquaintance Mr. Anillius barely understands.
As is the case among less advanced tribes, though, haptic communication is
favored.

Although it still has a gender-divided hunter-gatherer society in place, women
enjoy much political freedom in Nahalaar. They can be appointed by the
Chief-Scribe to the position of Elder when they are sixty, a full ten years
before men are eligible. Some women have abandoned their gathering stations and
turned to hunting and fighting, a change that is accepted as long as they are
not with child or currently rearing children.

Nevertheless, the most important privilege is still reserved for males. The
position of Chief-Scribe is only open to the eldest son of the previous
Chief-Scribe. Since the Chief-Scribe is, of course, charged with recording
bloodlines, there is sometimes an element of favoritism during this process.
When a succession dispute arises, the customary way to settle it is through
combat to the death. If all else fails, the Elders select a new Chief-Scribe
from the populace.

Combat figures heavily into the day-to-day lifestyle of the Nahalaar people.
Although useless due to isolation and rarely to the death, masculine pride is
often exerted through brief skirmishes between two village men. It is a little
known fact that the famous _Two Tribal Youths Fighting_ painting by Arselil was
based on this custom. Warrior-women are generally exempt from this game, but
while losing to a woman is viewed as shameful, so is denying one the privilege
of a fight.

Magic is discarded in favor of their warrior culture, but like with mainstream
Nordic culture this was not always so. Future researchers are encouraged to
delve deeper into the Witch-Wives of the Chief-Scribe.

## Marriage Customs and the Concept of Family

The most notable and most unusual features of the Nahalaar are their complete
lack of a marriage custom, an utterly alien and perhaps barbaric view of sex and
sexuality, and a family structure unlike any other on Tamriel.

Tamrielic society places a great (almost sickening) deal of importance on the
emotional connotations of sex, but the Nahalaar people view it as primarily for
breeding purposes. The Chief-Scribe has to be present to record every act of
copulation that occurs within the village. Fornication, defined in Nahalaar as
having intercourse without the Scribe’s presence, is punishable by exile.

That is not to say that the Nahalaar are completely pure, as this scholar has
had unfortunate first-hand experience with. Indeed, sex for pleasure and various
other debaucheries are actively encouraged in Nahalaar society, as long as the
Chief-Scribe is present. The Nahalaar even have absolutely no qualms about
letting unrelated third parties view them “in flagrante delicto”, so to speak.
Needless to say, wholesome residents of the Empire do not want to visit this
area.

Once the woman has been impregnated, the father no longer has any say in the
fate of the child. The mother bears the sole responsibility of raising the
child, together with her mother and siblings. While friendships between mother
and father are common, romantic relationships are unheard of and are indeed
viewed as abominable in Nahalaar society.

One should _not_ mistake the importance of the sibling relationship for
incestuous tendencies. It is quite the opposite, in fact. One of the
Chief-Scribe’s most important roles is precisely to circumvent the possibilities
of incest. If an incestuous relationship is discovered (and incestuous
relationships are also considered fornication), the punishment is death for both
parties. There are many faults with their culture, but incest is not one of
them.

## Religion

Unlike other religions, which depict gods as very much alive, Nahalaar religion
is centered around a dead god.

In the oft-retold story of _Keld, his Wives and the Dragon_, the dragon Nahalaar
carries a man named Keld away to the Isles along with his many wives. There he
teaches Keld the secret names of the islands, the methods of hunting and
surviving, and - most importantly - the laws of what will become Nahalaar
Village. Finally, the dragon flies off to Aetherius, never to be seen again.

Although surely an embellishment (Keld being the sole male would flatly
contradict the no-incest rule of the village), the story does have multiple
elements of truth. A dragon named Nahalaar _did_ found the village with Keld and
he _did_ create the basis for its modern-day society.

The true story has a much, much more tragic ending. At night, Nahalaar is
ambushed by his fellow dragons. He is an apostate, one who defies Alduin’s will.
Apostates are not allowed to live under Alduin’s rule. He is outnumbered
three-to-one, and with his dying breath he Shouts at the Nahalaar Isles,
concealing them in a thick fog and saving the people forever.

I am skeptical as to the nature of Nahalaar’s apostasy, and considering the
customs of his servants it seems likely to me that his motives were less than
altruistic. Once you factor in the encouragement of breeding and the obsession
with bloodline, his intentions become quite clear to us in the 4th.

Nahalaar was building an army.

Whatever his intentions were, it remains a fact that the people of Nahalaar
Village practice a Day of Mourning every Turdas noon. All activity is stopped on
that day. Rags are unwashed. Food is not gathered. Hunting parties stay inside.
Nothing else goes on. For half an hour, wailing and mindless pulling of clothes
dominate the village. Some say that the wails are in imitation of their god’s
death throes, or perhaps a tragically misguided attempt at calling his spirit
back.

Nahalaar Village is utterly unconcerned with matters of life and death, choosing
to focus on the temporal world.

## Recent Events

The Imperials and Nahalaar enjoy a mutually beneficial agreement of
noninterference. The Imperials use the island as a base for curbing pirates and
foreign powers and Nahalaar is left to its own devices. At times, the Imperials
harvest lumber from the neighboring woods, which is condoned as long as it does
not interfere with their hunting and gathering lifestyle.

Despite these peaceable relations, Imperial influences are still looked upon
with contempt in Nahalaar. Foreign races - especially elves - are subject to
open ridicule. The only reason they _weren’t_ throwing rocks at me was that I
was accompanied by the well-armed Commander Anillius. It was for this reason
that I decided to terminate my research early, fearing for my safety and health.

> And this concludes my brief treatise on the ways and customs of the Nahalaar.
> Hopefully, we have all learned something. I have learned that there are limits
> to the places a scholar should be willing to go.

{:tag="aside" .afterword}
