---
title: Talos vs the World
subtitle: The Man with Two Hearts
reddit: 29r8sy
author: Mr_Flippers
date: 2014-07-03T17:33:21Z
---

_pitch black surrounding, all that can be seen is Talos standing perfectly
visible amongst darkness_

_A golden disc appears with 3 pillars above and 1 below. Lips become indented
and then a nose. 3 holes in the shape of a triangle are cut out of the disc._

_A tall and muscular grey body forms out of the disc. Slender, bony fingers with
long nails extend towards Talos. The three eyes suddenly glow red and the figure
flies toward him, wrapping its fingers around the gods throat_

---

**Dagoth Ur** : HOW DARE YOU KILL ME LIKE THIS

\[Talos grabs Ur’s hands and holds them back\]

**Talos**: This is my-

**Dagoth Ur**: I am NOT yours, You are MINE. I don’t care how much you want to
be something else, you are a killer!

**Talos**: What do you even call the world? Did you even know her-

**Dagoth Ur**: DONT CHANGE MY NAME! STOP CHANGING. \[Ur slaps Talos\]

You silence my moons, you enslave the minds of everyone I could save! Why do you
keep sickening me? War is not a business. Stop silently burning me!

\[they hold each other’s hands in a test of strength in silence\]

**Talos**: \[smiling\] why am I so bad? What could you possibly hate so much
more than this world?

**Voryn and Dagoth Ur**: myself.

**Dagoth Ur**: And you are the reason why.

YOU

\[slap\]

MAKE

\[slap\]

ME

\[slap\]

HATE

\[punches Talos, knocking him backwards\]

\[Talos has become notably angry. He grows his second head, which at first looks
like a horned serpent, but quickly becomes shaped like the face of a great,
terrible man\]

\[Talos does a double headbutt to Ur, knocking him over. Talos then locks his
legs down against the sides of Ur and with both heads he bites off the arms of
Ur\]

**Talos**: Violence breeds violence, but in my world it has to be this way.

\[for the first time in eras, Ur slightly experiences fear\]

**Dagoth Ur**: You would kill it, wouldn’t you? You would keep eating and eating
just to kill me, even Namira doesn’t cannibalise itself!

**Talos**: No. I have something much worse for you. I won’t have to slowly creep
further and further through you; I’m just going to watch you fade away, as you
did before and will do again.

\[Talos then becomes a sword and is stabbed through Ur\]

---

**Nervous stranger**: you look like you’d know something about the Empire

**Talos**: I should. I used to fight for it. Not so much these days. You look
like you’re ready for the kind of fights I was in.

**Nervous stranger**: I hope so, there’s a lot going behind me. Not too long ago
I was barely anything more than the property of the Emperor.

**Talos**: Don’t worry about him. The Emperor is getting old. Don’t know how
much longer he’ll hang on. So is the whole Empire, for that matter. Getting old,
that is. The Emperor and the legions have held the Empire together for hundreds
of years. It’s been a good thing, by and large. But maybe it’s time for a
change. Time for something young and new. What? No idea. Because I’m old. Old
dog doesn’t get new ideas. But maybe young folks like you should try some new
ideas. I don’t know. Could be messy. But change is never pretty.

**Nervous stranger**: you can only hope that what the change does is pretty.

**Talos**: You can only hope. Whatever you’re hoping for, take this with you
\[he gives a coin\]. If you’re ever down on your luck, that’s always helped me
get out of an unpleasant position. It might do the same for you. Couldn’t help
to have a little more money anyway.

---

**Talos**: I realised that was his problem. He was just like me, only he wasn’t
quite so stable so he became-

**Vivec**: Nothing. You should remember, there is no true symbolism at the
centre.

**Talos**: I remembered. And even as he was, he couldn’t hold. \[he smiles,
knowing they’re both aware of the reference\]

\[Vivec smiles\]

\[both are smiling\]

**Vivec**: How wonderful it is that you’ve remembered. Even down to the little
things. Otherwise you wouldn’t have seen it yourself.
