---
title: A Brief Account of Bosmer Dance, or “Storytelling Through Dance“
reddit: 29t9h7
author: WaywardMetroid
date: 2014-07-04T08:07:54Z
pseudonym: |
  Coriakin of Lillandril, well-travelled scholar, amature poet, and priest of
  Auri-El
---


> Dear reader, I must begin this by telling you that my travels through all of
> Tamriel began in the days of my youth with Valenwood. And as such, my notes on
> subjects pertaining to my cousins of the Elder Wood are unorganised as are my
> memories. If this sways you to do so, please contact me either through magical
> scrying or pen and paper so that I may refund you, at the very least, twenty
> Septims or Aldmeri Dominion pieces (possibly more depending on the
> happenstance of your desire for a refund or differences in currency). I assure
> you that it is well within my power, as of this publishing to do so.

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

As many of you may know, the bosmer of Valenwood are a varied, ancient, and
quaint people. Due to the environment of their home, communication (even by
gondolier) is spotty at best. As such, their language, both written and spoken,
rapidly adapts, it is uncommon for it to be irreconcilable but as always there
are extreme cases. I digress, due to this slight rift in-between Bosmeri tribes,
other methods are often used to preserve histories, legends, myths, and
folklore. Two, of which are inevitably tied, are dance and song.

During my travels in the current Fourth Era, the year of our Lord Auriel
One-Hundred and Four I was fortunate enough to bear witness to a summit between
two tribes in an ancient tradition of goodwill and mingling of blood between the
two (referred to by the bosmer as a “ge’togeth’r”). After reconciliation of old
friendships and explanations as to my presence, of which there was much
confusion on the other party’s account, the two eldest wisemen began to speak in
their common dialect of Bosmeris. After a brief conversation, of which they
seemed to discuss the overall events of the past however-many-months in-between
this meeting and the last, they shook hands and a fire was lit using coal (as
use of wood is prohibited by their Green Pact). After this fire was at its
fullest, a newly slaughtered boar was brought forth and set over the fire on a
spit. As it cooked, more merriment took place and jagga(a curious drink worth
writing a volume on itself) was distributed. Soon after, a merry meal (obviously
entirely of meat) took place. Once every edible piece of the boar was gone the
bones were carried away and I was told to stand back.

What I saw before me intrigued me, and so I recorded it in its entirety.

A ring of bosmer, consisting of both men and women and children in no particular
pattern formed around the fire. A drummer began a steady beat, soon followed
with chanting (or singing, somewhere in-between) in common Southerner Bosmeris.
Through my thick understanding of that particular dialect (it has since
improved, I really should return and listen to the song in full), what I could
understand was as follows --

_“One soul, two bodies,”_

_“A noble Maiden fair and a brave Master strong,”_

These two lines were repeated, with the men leading in a powerful bass and the
women echoing in an airy soprano. Then, the whole of the circle began to clap
and move deasil, and then after seven counts would circle widdershins around the
fire. After a final repetition of the two lines (resulting in a total of five
repeats), the men and women separated, the children as well went to their
respective places. Now there were two rings around the fire, one of men and boys
and the other of women and girls. Then, one man and one woman leapt forward and
kept on opposite sides of the fire from each other, this is when the flute and
stringed instruments joined in. The dance was livelier now. The verse (again, a
rough translation), was like this.

Men: _“A love forbidden, separated by distance and tribes,”_

and the Women would follow with: _“They met in secret, their love hidden by the
trees,”_

and both: _“but it was not to last,”_

Tamrielic doesn’t do these lyrics justice, hearing them with the music and in
the beautiful tongue of the bosmer is beyond words. Again, I digress – the two
in the center began to sing a verse in tandem that went as follows,

_“Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter, the seasons change but our love remains,”_

_“The Moons shift, yet our love remains,”_

Such music that accompanied this fire-lit caper! Oh, how I wish I could describe
it! Although, it now shifted with the dance of the men. They began to move in a
way that was more violent, and they were vocalizing along with the song (perhaps
the chant was words I didn’t know?) in a way that showed a tinge of malice. The
women, on the other hand, had changed from a lively dance to one that I would
describe as sorrowful if you know what I mean. To this point, the two central
dancers had been opposite each other, even mirroring each other’s directions
(that is to say one went right and the other went left), but now as the outside
of the circle brewed with turmoil the two began to grow more in sync, both in
tone and style of dance. I regret to inform you that I was so absorbed with the
dance that I may have missed a verse, but the next that I remember came from the
other dancers and it went like so,

_“Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter, the seasons change but our anger remains,”_

_“The Moons shift, yet our anger remains,”_

It became clear to me that this was a Bosmeri take on a common story throughout
the World, two lovers whose stars are crossed. I wondered if the bosmer would
have a happier take than most.

As the dance continued, the lovers eventually met but by the time they began to
dance together the two sides were engaged in a dance that mimicked fighting. The
two lovers wove in and out, dodging mock combatants as they spun and leapt. The
singing had slowly changed into a chant of Bosmeris for _“War”_. This continued
for a short time before the dancers dissipated. The central man spun and
released his lover, putting himself between her and another man. These two
engaged in what looked like full-contact sparring, or at the very least a
dangerous dance. Kicks and punches were thrown, dodged, and countered. It was
all very convincing. At last, our Hero emerged victorious by knocking his rival
down. The final part of the dance involved one last circle around the fire by
the hero and his love.

In all my travels, I have yet to see a similar way of storytelling. Many know
the bosmer for their craftsmanship and ability to circumvent using plant
materials, but few know of their use of dance to pass down stories. This, to me,
is one of the most interesting traits of my forest-dwelling cousins.

---

This is my first apocrypha, so sorry if it’s bad. This is just an interesting
idea I had based on the idea that I’ve seen around that Bosmeris is very
flexible as a language and I thought I’d share it with you all.
