---
title: On the Ayleid realms, An Introductory Report
reddit: 2a0020
author: Voryn
date: 2014-07-06T22:28:30Z
---

Sun’s Dawn, the 20th, 4E202

The Imperial City

Greetings, my lord. I hope this letter finds you swiftly. Within will be my
first report on the ayleids, or ayleidoon, rather. By no means a proper and full
report, an introduction of sorts, but it contains some personal knowledge
through research on my own time, which I believe is not commonly shared. Rest
assured, I have not forgotten your desire to find the cause of the ayleid civil
war, catalyst of their fall, and will pursue it at the first opportunity.

Firstly I would like to thank you for your confidence despite the often reviled
“taint” in my ancestry that seems to throw all bigoted noblemen into fits of
furious ignorance.

I would also like to extend my gratitude to lords Menel, Ojo and Hawk for their
investments in the expedition, I have waited all my life to bring to light all
that the alessians recklessly ruined in their zeal. Some fortunate scraps still
remain in our vaults, thanks to some brave members of the historical society,
born under Alessia’s own gaze. Miserably ironic a punishment that the alessians
opted to wholly strike from history those who chose to preserve it. An
unforgivable disgrace.

Following will be a brief overview on their culture, habits, political state of
affairs, etc.. It varies rather oddly from realm to realm, as I will detail when
we set out. I’m sorry to say that the imperial city will have to wait as subject
of study for several reasons, one of them being the very myriad of security
verifications required before letting anyone even see the ayleid relics
safeguarded in the tower. Another being that some relics are still being
uncovered, being so difficult to carefully extract from potentially lethal
protection wards. Not to mention that their unearthing is put on hold for
months, sometimes years if someone dies in the attempt of unlocking the ward.

To begin with the topic of politics, there was a notion well obscured by the
Alessians, and still mostly ignored today: the ayleidoon were an empire, much
like our own. In fact, it was upon their structure that ours was built.

Uncountable elements of imperial culture can (or could have been) traced back to
the ayleid way of life. How their empire functioned, however, was verily
unusual. The majority of their standing army was daedric, they might have had an
allegiance to Oblivion greater than even the dunmer. Although this was not
worship in the strictest sense, a few realms chose worship, yes, but the most
common partnership was indeed a simple mutually beneficial agreement.

The one realm that shrugged off all labels was the one whose walls guard me now;
the Imperial City, named so before our time. The alessians might have changed
that too if Alessia herself hadn’t perpetuated the name after the ayleid fall.
What was most peculiar about the city, compared to the other ayleid realms, was
the abundance of knowledge that flowed through it. Ancient sorceries,
enchantments, maps of constellations, Oblivion, the deeper Aurbis, some are even
speculated to cross into the realm of time. The emperor, Umaril, even
,supposedly, withheld more than what was granted to the rest of his trusted
advisors. I hope to develop more on him in following reports, when we are
finally permitted into the restricted archives.

He is said to be the first to have brought safe and successful pacts with the
daedra, as well as vast collections of knowledge and powers which quickly
garnered him his first followers, and eventually, from jealousy of their lavish
lifestyles, the rest of the province. The enslavement of man was an early
symptom of this and while it was necessary to maintain their pacts with the
princes, it is speculated that there are other reasons at play. Of course, they
never held a high opinion of man to begin with.

Back to the Imperial City, the citizens there followed no known classification,
worshipping neither daedra or aedra, yet recognising both and receiving their
aid. They have even obtained support from magnic entities, two being held in
particular reverence, one being Meridia, and the other being somewhat more
difficult to track down. These solar entities were held in particular reverence,
being credited with the gifting of welkynd and varla stones.

It was interesting to note that power structures developed different trends from
the nibenean east to the colovian west. While in the west, certain cities
endured under the same sorcerer-king for many centuries, due to their experience
and wizened might, in the east we could find that most often when rulers
changed, it was because a stronger sorcerer had risen to usurp him (Usurpation,
the realm crowns and the power associated with these will receive its own text
in due time, there is much to be said).

And this odd structure functioned for millenia, despite the blased attitudes,
despite the debauchery, the (at least how we might define them) psychopathic
tendencies, the dangerous pacts, the volatile mentalities and the slave
foundation. For but one sole reason did it not consume itself: Umaril. They all
lived in utter respect for Umaril and his city. There are dozens of passing
mentions to this fact that survived the alessian torchings.

To briefly mention geography and the environment. We all know Cyrod was once a
jungle, although every time I read of this in original ayleid texts, it is never
properly used, as if the word might have meant something else to them than it
does to us. I can’t much say how the heartland was divided, but fortunately, one
of our next targets for research is the ruined realm of Telepe, home of the
deceased Sorcerer-King Agdatheil, the cartographer. Several sources confirm his
obsession with proper charting of the physical world, ley-lines, and a great
many other things. If any of his maps survive to this day, they will be
invaluable in locating ruins lost to the passage of time.

I almost forgot to describe their appearance. They were often described in
frightful detail by the former slaves. Tall with very sharp features, slender
hands, with feathers for hair and beards. Their eyes are written as having
abnormally large irises of various colors which could focus so much as to make
their pupils minuscule, giving a horrifyingly powerful stare. No white either,
what little space there was behind the iris was wholly black. Their skin was
usually fair, sometimes slightly tinted with color, and their feathers varied in
such an array of colors as to make rainbows envious. Of course, however, this
information is not strictly from ancient times as it can be observed from the
descendants of ayleidoon, the wild elves, if one can find them.

As for culture, there are practically no records of ayleidoon living before
their alliances with daedra. However, there are traditions in the west which
they kept for an unspecified amount of time, which may lead to some better
understanding. What happens after that, is a culture of over-indulgence and
hedonism to a level that can never hope to be replicated.

Torture was a form of entertainment, self-induced insanity was used for
relaxation, slave abuse in almost every way was a manner of killing time and
liquors of all kinds were gorged upon moreso than water. Sorcery was freely
practiced and served as the main qualifier of power in their society rather than
coin, like in ours. Much of their nefarious arts were learned through their
alliances with the magne-ge, ancient and complex magics that permitted many
baffling feats. What these solar entities stood to gain from this allegiance, I
cannot yet say.

Their magic also shaped and built most of the important bodies of the ayleid
realms, as the majority of sorcerer-lords simply did not trust slaves, no matter
how threatened, to chisel out of the land the mad and meticulous designs they
had made in their minds. In truth, most of the ruins we see today are nothing
more than private undergrounds belonging to the realm lords.

The realms were largely above ground and varied ,quite appropriately, variedly,
from realm to realm.

There are brief mentions of great, shaped trees that bled beryl sap, sprouted
glass leaves and housed many of the more common folk. Even great stone
structures, bent and molded into splendid and lively shapes curiously dissimilar
to what we see now. I have theories on this but I cannot confirm anything.

I’ve seen some of the more well-preserved realms, they are rather rapturous in
their ruin and evocative if one tries to imagine what they looked like before.
Beautiful alabaster roads, impressive open buildings (almost always with an
oculus to permit the sun’s entry I might add), the pillars, the vibrant arches,
the bath halls, the gardens, all these open and finely sculpted spaces. What a
wonder it would be to see them in their living days, cloaked in multicolor flora
and shining in starlight.

Moving on, their culture was notorious for its various forms of “art” and
“entertainment”. Their art was also entirely different from area to area but
what stood out is they most often created it through live subjects, known as
flesh sculptures. Much of their art depended on living elements. They would
twist a body’s bones and muscles, alter its shape, suffuse it with magicka, add
additional decoration to create a living (though kept immobile and
incapacitated, most of the time) art piece.

As for their entertainment, it came in all shapes and sizes, almost always
involving death in some shape or form. One of the more popular ones involved a
hedge maze in a sort of arena which human mothers had to navigate, as well as
survive a number of tigers to reach their newborns, slowly being lowered to a
fiery death.

Religion, as far as one can call it that, did not have as much of an impact on
culture as one might believe, so long as we speak within the realm of worship.

They did have a sort of central pantheon, eight gods, the very (although not
quite) same ones Alessia built upon to create the Eight Divines. They were given
a certain special recognition for bringing about the world and permitting all
their joys and endeavors. Of course, while they were respectfully recognised,
they weren’t necessarily followed, as we do.

On occasion, a realm would be dedicated to a daedric prince, for example, and
its practices would reflect their choice, and would be actively supported by
daedric envoys. If I said one such realm pledged its offerings to Molag Bal, I
wouldn’t need to explain some their practices. If one did the same for Sanguine,
then the city would send all of its offerings to said prince all the while the
increasing magnitude of the debauchery and its depravity would alter their
production priorities and spill into all aspects of their life. This variety is
but one more reason for my interest in the ruins.

To “blaspheme” was a rare thing to ayleidoon, in fact their judiciary system was
fairly lenient to their own kin. I’ve recovered a few half destroyed texts on
their laws and certain types of murders and form of usurpation are legal if only
because the winner is proved the stronger one for it. Overall it was rather
fluid, having few laws as few things were viewed as outright offenses,
preferring to take a case to case approach. There’s even mention of a law-tome
that hosts previously concluded trials which can be used as a reference point

There are many more points I could include with this letter but I trust my
upcoming research on the ruins will make them more substantial and worthwhile. I
wish to once more extend my gratitude for the confidence you’ve place in me.

Varlais suna ni, stars bless you, my lord. Expect from me in a few months.

Regards, Solortus Nexusus
