---
title: Let’s revisit the definition of mantling, eh?
reddit: 2a9c0p
author: MareloRyan
date: 2014-07-09T18:12:35Z
---

First, I’ll just link this comment for some context. [It’s a list of what I
think the various Walking Ways are, along with some discussion with
/u/Sakazwal.][0]

Now: The most common understanding of what mantling is comes from Talos’ own
mouth (well, one of them):

> The Stormcrown manted by way of the fourth: the steps of the dead. Mantling
> and incarnation are separate roads; do not mistake this. The latter is built
> from the cobbles of drawn-bone destiny. The former: walk like them until they
> must walk like you. This is the death children bring as the Sons of Hora.
>
> _[Nu-Hatta of the Sphinxmoth Inquiry Tree][1]_{:tag="cite"}

“Walk like them until they must walk like you”, which is assumed to describe
only the fourth Walking Way.

But notice that he says he mantled _by way of the fourth_. Not that the fourth
is the only way to mantle, and not that the fourth _is_ mantling.

Granted, later he clarifies the difference between mantling and incarnation, but
there’s not a solid syntactical link between those thoughts and the description
of what the fourth is.

So what is Talos actually saying, then? The first sentence:

> The Stormcrown manted by way of the fourth: the steps of the dead.

Talos is here calling the fourth “the steps of the dead” and saying that he
mantled that way. This indicates that mantling is a more general process, and
that “the steps of the dead” are a specific kind or process of mantling. I’ll
posit that “mantling” refers to the assumption of a sphere of influence, taking
the mantle of an immortal concept, wearing it as your own. This can more
generally be seen as any kind of apotheosis at all; that is, _all_ the Walking
Ways are mantling, but “the steps of the dead” are what we currently think of as
the only interpretation of “walk like them until they walk like you” and
currently equate with the word “mantling”.

The rest of the quote, less the last sentence:

> Mantling and incarnation are separate roads; do not mistake this. The latter
> is built from the cobbles of drawn-bone destiny. The former: walk like them
> until they must walk like you.

Talos is saying here that incarnation (Shezarrine status, in the case of one or
more of his component selves) is not in itself apotheosis, mantling, or the
taking of a sphere, which only makes sense. If mantling is the taking of a
sphere of influence, then incarnation is either giving one up by inhabiting a
truly mortal form, or not having one in the first place. Note that Shezarrines
are incarnations of Lorkhan, who was _removed_ from his divine spark, from his
sphere of influence. The Void Ghost doesn’t have a sphere, but it can still
incarnate due to its Ghost status (which I believe is the primary result of
enantiomorphic events). This seems to hold true of the Nerevarine, as well.

In other words, Talos mantled Lorkhan by taking the steps of the dead, and, in
so doing, returned the mantle of Lorkhan to life. He took the sphere of Space
and Limit by doing what its former owner did. But it just so happens that its
former owner was incarnated in the components of Talos, so Lorkhan was, in a
certain sense, taking it _back_ by retracing his steps. And the _specific way_
that Talos mantled Space and Limit involved the steps of the dead, the merging
of identity through like actions. (But CHIM allowed Talos to retain an
independent self, layering on an extra-confusing “fuck you” to people trying to
figure out how this all works.)

So how does “walk like them until they walk like you” interact with this
broadened concept of mantling? Basically, the steps of the dead are the most
_literal_ way of mantling, of taking a sphere of influence, and the least
nuanced. You’re basically just shoving your AE into a pre-existing one and
saying, “Ha, it’s mine now, suckers”.

But there are other ways to “walk like them until they walk like you,” and this
is tied to what, exactly, “they” refers to. It doesn’t have to be a specific,
pre-existing AE. It could just be the concepts of the (attempted) sphere of
influence.

Take the fifth Walking Way as an example, CHIM: What’s the mantled sphere of
influence? The self. Mastery over it. CHIM is an elevation of the self into a
sphere unto itself. This is what allows Talos to take the fifth and the fourth
without losing himself.

What did the Dwemer do? They mantled Denial, through Tonal Architecture and soul
fusion, which I place as the third and sixth Walking Ways, respectively.

Mannimarco? He had control of Numidium, that is, the spirit of Denial and the
collective of all Dwemeri knowledge and history. He mantled Necromancy through
Tonal Architecture, by making the walking embodiment of all advanced Tonal
Architects, Numidium, deny his mortality, deny the parts of him that _weren’t_
Revenant. Anyone with formal logic training knows that from a contradiction, all
conclusions follow.

(Maybe a big part of Talos’ own apotheosis was Numidium as well, denying _his_
mortality, and double-confirming him as Space and Limit. If you like.)

The last sentence:

> This is the death children bring as the Sons of Hora.

No idea what this means. I don’t know what “Hora” is doing in a TES character’s
mouth or what it indicates.

But yeah, I think this broader idea of mantling as the taking of a sphere of
influence is pretty solid, and works with all the texts and characters I’ve
thought to examine. In particular, it means that if CoC “mantled” Sheogorath,
that doesn’t necessarily mean by way of the fourth. Sheo ain’t dead, and never
was, remember? Rather, I think CoC mantled Sheogorath by the second walking way,
symbolic ritual and badassery:

> > I give you an ancient road tempered by the second walking way. Your hands
> > must be huge to wield any sword the size of an ancient road, and yet he who
> > is of right stature may irritate the sun with only a stick.
> >
> > ---
> >
> > The long road that the enemy always puts before you but you walk it anyway.
>
> Second seems like some kind of symbolic magic. “The right stature” probably
> refers to a perceptive state, substituting the “stick” for a “sword the size
> of an ancient road.” Substitute the self with symbols of godhood to become a
> god? “Perceptive state” isn’t quite right. Basically, just being a badass to
> the point where you transcend mortal limits. “The long road” of the enemy, the
> challenge you rise to time and again, in triumph: That’s the right stature
> that allows you to irritate the sun with only a stick. Be the thief that never
> gets caught, and you can start to steal the impossible. Be the warrior who
> never dies, and you can start to survive the impossible. Be the mage who never
> fails to work wonders, and you can start to work the impossible.

~~If you’ve played Shivering Isles, you know that’s _exactly_ what happened. The
CoC donned a bunch of symbols of Sheo’s station, and used them to kick
Jyggalag’s ass and take that station from him, leaving Jyggalag free of the
ancient curse.~~

~~Which leaves open a door: The CoC? They’re still in there, totally intact.
They just choose not to reveal their old identity, except through cryptic clues.
(Or not. Maybe your CoC didn’t do SI.)~~

The struck portion of my views has been rendered inaccurate by Haskill’s
question and answer session on _ESO_, and
[my subsequent analysis][2].
Short version: CoC got kicked out as a Daedric Vestige as soon as Jyggalag came
back. They did become immortal, by taking the mantle of Sheogorath, but it is
confirmed that this did _not_ involve merging their identity with Sheogorath.

And, just to throw further fuel on this, here are many uses of “mantling” in two
separate TES texts by MK which appear to mean exactly what I posited above:

> And with that we will regain the mantle of the imperishable spirit.
>
> _[Forum Archives: Michael Kirkbride][3]_{:tag="cite"}

<!-- -->

> We mortals leave the dreaming-sleeve of birth the same, unmantled save for the
> symbiosis with our mothers, thus to practice and thus to rapprochement, until
> finally we might through new eyes leave our hearths without need or fear that
> she remains behind. In this moment we destroy her forever and enter the
> demesne of Lord Dagon.
>
> _[Mythic Dawn Commentaries][4]_{:tag="cite"}
>
> …
>
> You are exalted in eyes that have not yet set on you; you, swain to
> well-travelled to shatterer of mantles.
>
> …
>
> The Tower touches all the mantles of Heaven, brother-noviates, and by its apex
> one can be as he will.
>
> …
>
> By the Book, take this key and pierce the divine shell that encloses the
> mantle-takers! The skin of gold! SCARAB AE AURBEX!
>
> …
>
> That is your ward against the Mnemoli. They run blue, through noise, and shine
> only when the earth trembles with the eruption of the newly-mantled. Tell them
> “Go! GHARTOK AL MNEM! God is come! NUMI MORA! NUM DALAE MNEM!”
>
> …
>
> Starlight is your mantle, brother. Wear it to see by and add its light to
> Paradise.

None of these uses appear to have anything to do with the merging of identity,
but they _all_ seem to have something to to do with taking godhood, with
apotheosis, with the taking of a role and nature. Coupled with the fact that
Septim is being heartily misinterpreted, I am extremely confident in my argument
that mantling is _not_ the merging of identity through like actions. It is and
always has been the taking of a mantle, the taking of godhood.

[0]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2a4nzf/how_do_you_become_a_god_and_other_god_related/cirzs6a
[1]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/nu-hatta-sphinxmoth-inquiry-tree
[2]: https://old.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/39m41e/loremasters_archive_an_interview_with_haskill/cs4jsrd
[3]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/forum-archives-michael-kirkbride
[4]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Mythic_Dawn_Commentaries
