---
series: The Rape of the Reach, or the Myth of Red Eagle
part: 14
title: The Last Battle
reddit: 2a9ft5
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-07-09T18:45:57Z
---

Héstram called for Tulír, who made way to her camp. When he came in, he was
greeted by the severed head of Orcí on the table. Héstram was seated on her
provisional throne.

She said: _It seems one of our problems is solved, but not all. We are still
left with Faolan and his men. Come, let us walk through the camp and discuss
this matter._{:tag="q"}

They left the tent and walked through the camp. They inspected the troops, who
were growing tired of the long campaign, and were afraid of the fierceness of
Faolan. The Reachian allies were becoming increasingly stubborn and unruly, and
some doubted Héstram’s own might.

Héstram spoke: _Do you see the fear in their eyes, and the weakness in their
scared flesh? This is what Faolan is doing to us right now. I am concerned
myself, indeed. He proves to be more than simply a nuisance, and we need to deal
with him at the first possibility. And we can only do that if we know who and
what he is._{:tag="q"}

Tulír spoke: _The men of the Reach have discussed this greatly, and it seems
what Orcí told earlier was correct. They have stories of these Bráircórs, and of
their strengths. Faolan fits these tales. I am afraid I know of no way to defeat
them, other than the help of the gods. We can only hope that his men loose fate
in him._{:tag="q"}

Héstram replied: _I do no see them do that. He is giving them victory, and they
have no cause for sorrow at this moment._{:tag="q"}

Tulír spoke: _That is not true, Héstram. The Reachmen are a proud people, who
value the warrior code. Faolan had broken this with his Warp-Spasm, and his
unfair treatment of Orcí. He is, to his men, a monster. And I share their
perception of him. He is a spurn of evil, and is willing to even sacrifice his
men without a second thought if he can fight you out, queen of the South. Not
because of your conquest anymore, but because of your personal feud. He is a
traitor to his own cause, and the lowest of lowest in the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Tulír’s head was cracked open by a rock, thrown by Faolan, who was watching and
listening to the camp from a near hilltop. Héstram looked at him, and Andoe, who
stood next to the King, his back to the camp and his head low.

Héstram ordered the soldiers to give the body of Tulír a worthy burial, and that
is how the priest ended. She went back to the camp, to gather her armour and
arms, for she was about to meet Faolan for the final time.

By the next Dawn she set out to the ford where she first met the Eagle. She knew
that Faolan would be there, for Kai told her. When she arrived, she saw Faolan
hunting some deer. Before his javelin hit, Héstram shot the deer with her
magicka-feat. Faolan stood upright and looked at her.

Héstram spoke: _Greetings King Faolan. I see you are hunting here. Under normal
circumstances I would hunt you a deer, and share another. I would catch you a
salmon, and shared another. I would give you to drink of the purest waters. Yet
these aren’t normal circumstances. I want you to know that I do not take kindly
to the assassination (for this is what they were) of my generals and
lieutenants. I am here to make sure such a thing does not happen
anymore._{:tag="q"}

Faolan spoke: _Hail, “queen”. Even if you would hunt and catch fish for me, I
would not accept them (for it was an insult to deny these gifts). I do not
negotiate with invaders and false pretenders to my and my brothers’ position.
Leave these lands now, or fight for it._{:tag="q"}

Héstram replied: _If that is what you want. Meet me here tomorrow at dawn. We
will fight, and we will decide the fate of the Reach for ever. So it will be
before by your Old Gods and Kai, who will be my protector._{:tag="q"}

Héstram turned around and spend the night at her camp. Faolan remained at the
ford, and continued his Hunt.

When the Dawn broke both were at the ford. Faolan was wearing his loincloth, and
the head of a deer, which was radiating rage and bloodlust. His skin was pale as
if it had deceased. His hands shot uncontrollable bursts of fire and frost and
lightning, and the cuts on his body, some of which he received in his earlier
days, looked fresh, without bleeding. On his hips were two great scabbards, each
holding a sword the size of a springling in the early summer. On his back were
nine times nine javelins, each one the size of a tower. He held no shield nor
armour, for his muscles had grown numb to pain.

Héstram wore her White-Gold armour. Two dragons, springing from the ruby on her
stomach circled her breasts, each shouting fire, coming together on the Cim
Aedáibh Baím, which was on her chest. Her legs were protected by shin guards
which were as heavy as three mountains each, made of solid White-Gold. On her
hip was a giant scabbard, which held her White-Gold sword, as heavy as a hundred
year old oak, with a giant ruby as pommel. She had eight times eight javelins on
her back, each the size of White-Gold. She held a shield, of solid White-Gold,
with a giant boss big enough to hold a prize boar. On the shield were eight
circles, each depicting a different item [Hourglass, Wheel, Anvil, Triangle,
Chalice, Star, Flower, Dove]. The shield was big enough to shelter eight times
eight men on a stormy day.

Héstram was the first to speak: _Normally, it would be you who is to choose the
first means of combat, but it seems neither of us cares much for custom anymore.
Since I am the rightful owner of these lands, I say we will fight with magicka
first_.

So they did. Héstram shot fire and frost and lightning at Faolan, but the Eagle
dodged each shot. He returned, and every spell broke off on her armour. During
the fight, Julach descended, and made Faolan’s magicka unstable. His fireballs
shot of target, and his lightning fried himself.

Faolan lamented: _Why do you do this, Julach? I haven’t betrayed you!_{:tag="q"}

Julach spoke: _You have betrayed the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Héstram saw what was happening and stopped her magicka-feats.

She spoke again: _Let’s stop this battle of magic. Next, let us try our tactical
skills_{:tag="q"}

Both stood on the opposite sides of the ford. They each sought the best way to
attack, be it to climb the trees, to cross the ford, or to attack by range.
Both, at times, dashed in and lashed at each other. Héstram’s armour caught each
blow, just as Faolan’s flesh did. During the fight, Shtaerr descended, and made
Faolan’s reasoning soft. He misjudged his jump, slipped, and landed with his
head on a rock in the stream. Blood and eight teeth dropped from the Stag Head.

Faolan whispered: _Why do you do this, Shtaerr? I haven’t betrayed
you!_{:tag="q"}

Shtaerr spoke: _You have betrayed the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Héstram saw what was happening and stopped her tactical fight.

She spoke: _Let’s stop this battle of tact. Next, let us try our knowledge of
our arms._{:tag="q"}

Both took up their shields, bashing them with the strength of armies against
each others. Sparks fell, lighting the forests around them, and making the water
boil. During the fight, Zened descended and made Faolan misjudge the quality of
his shield. He gave too much force, and his shield shattered against Héstram’s.
Pieces of broken iron flew through the air, each red hot, and ripping Faolan’s
flesh. He sank to his knees.

Faolan murmured: _Why do you do this, Zened? I haven’t betrayed you!_{:tag="q"}

Zened spoke: _You have betrayed the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Héstram saw what was happening and stopped her shield-feat.

She spoke: _Let’s stop this battle of armour. Let us try our Javelin-feats
now._{:tag="q"}

Both took up their javelins, and threw them at each other with great force. Some
hit, but most that missed flew across the edges of Tamhréal, so great was the
force behind them. During the fight, Marr descended and gave Faolan memory of
his fallen children. Faolan became filled with sorrow, and his eyes teared up,
so that he could not see his target or her javelins. Two javelins penetrated his
chest, and he sank to his knees.

Faolan cried: _Why do you do this, Marr? I haven’t betrayed you!_{:tag="q"}

Marr spoke: _You have betrayed the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Héstram saw what was happening and stopped her javelin-feats.

She spoke: _Let’s stop this battle of javelins. Let us try our
bow-feats._{:tag="q"}

Both took up their bow and arrows, and continued to shoot at each other. Each
shot was filled with the rage and strength of a thousand warriors, and the
arrows that missed carved trees and mountains in half. During the battle,
Debhallach descended and filled Héstram with female beauty. Faolan became
captivated, and could not take his eye of the Queen. Héstram shot three arrows,
dropping Faolan to the ground.

Faolan groaned: _Why do you do this, Debhallach? I haven’t betrayed
you!_{:tag="q"}

Debhallach spoke: _You have betrayed the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Héstram saw what was happening and stopped her bow-feats.

She spoke: _Let’s stop this battle of bows and arrows. Let us try our
sky-feats._{:tag="q"}

Both jumped up with enough force to shake the Reach. They leaped from each
other’s blows and armour, and flew with the swiftness of the winds. During the
fight, Cneréc descended and took the winds from Faolan’s feet. He plummeted to
the ground below, and landed with enough force to break the mountain on which he
landed.

Faolan wheezed: _Why do you do this, Cneréc? I haven’t betrayed you!_{:tag="q"}

Cneréc spoke: _You have betrayed the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Héstram saw what was happening and stopped her sky-feats.

She spoke: _Let’s stop this battle of sky-feats. Let us try our
swiftness-feats._{:tag="q"}

They took up their swords, and moved with the swiftness of time itself. They
exchanged thousand-and-eight blows in the blink of an eye, which to them seemed
like the life-time of Empires. There swiftness caused the Karth to relay its
course, for the water in the ford was boiling until drought. During the fight,
Kai descended and made Faolan’s swiftness-feats slow. Before the Eagle saw what
was happening, the Queen of the South had already plunched her sword into him a
thousand fold. He fell to his back.

Faolan growled: _Why do you do this, Kai? I haven’t betrayed you!_{:tag="q"}

Kai spoke: _You have betrayed the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Héstram saw what was happening, and stopped her swiftness-feats.

She spoke: _Let’s stop this battle of swiftness. Let us finish this._{:tag="q"}

She stood over Faolan’s damaged and mutilated body. She plunched her sword into
his Heart-Wound, severing the Briarheart from the body. Úrci descended and made
the life leave Faolan’s death.

Faolan wept: _Why do you do this Úrci? I haven’t betrayed you!_{:tag="q"}

Úrci and Héstram spoke in unison: _You have betrayed the Reach._{:tag="q"}

Héstram spoke: _This was our final battle, Faolan. You are no king no more, and
these are not your lands anymore. I will not take off your head, for that is not
my custom, nor of the Reach now. I will also not give you this warrior’s honour
that you long for. I will remain, and not make the mistake Orcí made. I will see
to it that you die._{:tag="q"}

From the woods came forth a man with a loincloth and a Stag Head over his. In
his hand was a gigantic spear, horned and curved.

Faolan cried, blood spurting from his lungs and mouth: _Hirseinn! Great Hunter,
hail! The other of my gods have betrayed me, and I need more help against this
demon from the South! Help me in my hour of need!_{:tag="q"}

Hirseinn made way to the dying king, and kneeled before him.

The Prince spoke: _They haven’t betrayed you, Faolan. They help those that are
worthy of it. You have gone against every tradition of your people, in the hope
of keeping what they want the most. This is a noble goal. In the process,
however, you have forgotten what you wanted, and what your men wanted. You
became hungry for battle, and wanted to gain vengeance against your enemies. You
betrayed them, and you betrayed the Reach. For those that can not reach their
own gods, me and my brothers remain. I wanted to help you, but I am more than
your servant, former king. I am patron to the Hunter and the Hunted, and it
seems you have become the latter on this day. I will not claim your soul, for
you have proven to be bad sport. Farewell, Red Eagle, and may you find the peace
you want._{:tag="q"}

The Prince of Hunters stood up, and walked back into the woods, only to appear
back at the Bloodied Moon.

Faolan’s eyes began to tear again. The pain from his already dead flesh began to
reach him, and he succumbed to his wounds. This is how Faolan died.

Héstram, having waited for the dying breath stood up.

She raised her Voice, which means the Roar of the Dragon: _The Reach belongs to
the Empire of Men and the Dragon. All Hail Kai, and all Hail the
Eight!_{:tag="q"}

She left the dead king then.

Andoe, having watched the battle, descended from the mountain, collecting the
dead king, and bringing him back to his camp.
