---
title: "Precedent for the Dragonborn Apotheosis, part 2"
reddit: 2a9sf2
author: Francois_Rapiste
date: 2014-07-09T20:37:42Z
---

In my [previous thread][0] I posed the possibility of the last dragonborn
attaining apotheosis through one of the Walking Ways: soul stacking. If I have
it down right, this consists of pouring a huge amount of creatia into a single
being, which is ordinarily derived through the souls of mortals. The result is
that the oversoul reaches a high subgradient in the Godhead’s dream, becoming
alike to a divine or cosmic being.

In this case, we see the Dragonborn perform soul stacking with dragons instead
of, say, Dwemer (as was the case with the Numidium). It is possible that
_whether_ this works as a Walking Way depends on _how_ it works in the first
place.

I see three possibilities, though other suggestions are welcome. The first is
that the absorbed souls barely if at all react with LDB’s own soul. LDB has
access to them, but is not comprised of or metaphysically altered by them.

The second is that his soul literally eats the other souls. For example, when he
killed Mirmulnir, Mirmulnir’s soul was destroyed and the Dragonborn’s soul
doubled in size.

The third more closely resembles Talos and ALMSIVI. Instead of being a whole
bunch of separate souls as in #1 or one gigantic soul as in #2, an oversoul is
formed. LDB is the head of this oversoul, and every dragon soul in it is a part
of him/her, but the individual souls also retain a degree of individuality.

In the second and third scenarios, the sheer amount of creatia and AE would
likely render our hero a cosmic or divine being sometime after the events of
Skyrim. In the first scenario, I do not know how that would work out, since I am
not aware of anything similar occurring in the lore.

It should be noted that all souls involved are shards of the Aka-tusk. This may
affect our results. Maybe LDB becomes independent of Aka, or maybe he/she
becomes a second Nordic aspect of Aka. Maybe a bit of both, or something in
between, or an Ysmir-made-divine concept that includes LDB’s possible connection
to Shor. Maybe none of the above.

The point of this post is most of all to ask how soul absorption works. What
happens to an absorbed dragon soul, and how it may interact with LDB’s soul.
Also, I’m curious as to any theory or conjecture as to what this all would turn
our hero into.

In any case, I am considering doing a follow-up on how I personally believe soul
absorption works, using as much evidence as I can assemble from the lore.

[0]: ./2a7qr1
