---
series: The Rape of the Reach, or the Myth of Red Eagle
part: 15
title: Eulogies
reddit: 2acs07
author: Hollymarkie
date: 2014-07-10T18:42:05Z
---

Andoe brought the dead body of Faolan to his camp. There, the late king was put
on a stone slab, in front of his tower. His kin and kith stood around the body.

Andoe was the first to speak: _O great king Faolan, who now lays before me. You
have fought for us and for our Old Gods, but you have failed as well. Your
hatred for Orcí and Héstram, which were pure in the beginning, has consumed you.
It has led you of your true path, and angered the gods. You will not be a
martyr, or a saint, but you will be remembered, by every old woman and every
young boy of the Reach. Let your past battles and strives be example to all of
us. The Reach is lost, and you should fear no more._{:tag="q"}

He chanted the following verse:

```verse
O King deceased,
Now laying here.
Eternal sleep
Frees you of fear.
```

Suibhne spoke: _Your hate has consumed you, Faolan, but now you may rest. Let it
go before you join your fathers and their fathers. They will smile on you for
it, and even the gods will accept you again. Part now, great king, and let your
strength and prowess in battle be your memory._{:tag="q"}

He chanted the following verse:

```verse
Memory of strength
And of great offence.
We shall sing at length
Of your great defence.
```

Morrígu moved from among the ranks, and spoke: _Fallen Eagle, Great Hunter, Late
King. My sisters and I gave you the gift of strength and magicka and hard-flesh,
but you twisted. You let yourself be corrupted, and corrupted the gift we
bestowed upon you. Let your death and your fall from grace be an example for the
others in your ranks, for all your brothers and sisters and children. Our gift
is for the Reach as a whole, and not just for men._{:tag="q"}

She chanted the following verse:

```verse
King Faolan, woe is me,
For I made you Bráircór.
Now let death make you free,
And be tainted no more.
```

After these verses, the death-games began. The warriors and heroes and champions
of Faolan performed their sword-feats and shield-feats and armour-feats. In
memory of their king they fought like him, with the fierceness of bears, and the
swiftness of Eagles. Many were bloodied and injured, but all remained standing
by the memory of their late king.

After the games, a great pyre was build in honour of Red Eagle. When lit, the
flames reached upwards, high enough to lick Cneréc’s heels and catch her tears.

The flames began to whirl, and shot downwards like a Dragon’s Voice. The flames
circled on the ground, and from them came forth the astral and ethereal shade of
Faolan.

He appeared young and beautiful, not glad in a loincloth or Stag’s Head, but in
his old armour, in the custom of his people. He was helmetless, and on his hip
was his longsword, radiating white light. His beard was thrice braided, and his
fair hair was nine-times braided. In the braids, a innumerable amount of beads
and gems were woven, each holding divine strength.

The ghost spoke: _Thank you, kin and kith. I have parted now, just as my wish
for your lands has parted. Both were my own doing. Do not cry for me, or for my
death, but cry for the Reach. Be proud of who you are, so that you might one day
join me and your ancestors. Promise me that you will never forget the Reach, and
the proud men that fell in her defence [of which I am not part]. The Reach is
never conquered other than in name._{:tag="q"}

All promised him this, before raising their arms and chalices to the Ghost.

Faolan spoke again: _When the fire clears, all that is left is the burial of my
body, as is custom. Bury me in my old armour, helmed and armed, and put me on my
old throne. This area will not know a King in a long time, for this is the
knowledge Julach and Kai gave me. Prepare my body in the ways and magics of our
ancestors. In death, I will not be able to defend the Reach, but I will protect
the last ember of our freedom, so that it might be lid in the future by those
that know our ways._{:tag="q"}

He chanted the following verse:

```verse
Do not weep, do not lament
Of how I came to be dead.
The Rape I could not prevent
For now my fate I have met
```

Faolan’s ghost departed then. His body was balmed and prepared as fits a king,
and blessed and enchanted as fits a warrior. The greatest of his kin and kith
carried his body into his tower, led by Andoe, who aided his king at every
command. They put Faolan’s body on his thrown, his hand on his sword, which was
also named as such. He was to be the guardian of his tower, and was to defeat
any challenger to his throne.

They sealed the door, and left the dead king then.

This is how Faolan was buried, and how the Reach fell to Héstram. This was the
end of the Rape of the Reach.
