---
title: Great House Evangelism – Great House Redoran
subtitle: To join Great House Redoran is to defend Morrowind
reddit: 2ao09b
author: Blackfyre87
date: 2014-07-14T14:00:36Z
---


Whether one expresses these words in the ancient tongue of Ald Resdayn, or in
the more Imperialized pidgin utilized on the streets of Blacklight, Balmora or
Raven Rock today, this is the sentiment that drives all Dunmer of Redoran. We do
not merely speak these words. With blade, spear, shield, pickaxe, plow and with
the quill and parchment, we live and breathe the message of those words.

We are the **First House** of Morrowind today. We led the fight against the
Daedra of Oblivion. We led the Grand Army against the Reptilian Menace. We lent
our strength to the Armistice with Emperors in Cyrodiil. This position of great
responsibility is not a position we take lightly, but we treat it, rather, as
the true calling of our house and we shall treat it as such until the people of
Morrowind decide we are no longer worthy of the honor.

We ever keep at the forefront of our minds, our solemn duty to protect the
people of Morrowind. We also never forget our commitment to our sacred duty, our
commitment to honor and to our commitment to our faith in the Reclamations. We
honor the Good Daedra, the Saints, and we give our respect to the Ashdwellers
who had the courage to defend our heritage in the face of persecution and
suffering. We stand firm with the other Great Houses and the remaining houses of
Morrowind in hope for a brighter future for our realm.

While Redoran are tight lipped and soft spoken, we are not, as some would
portray us, bumpkins or hicks, devoid of sophistication. We have no qualms with
the enjoyment of life; but we stress always that pleasure should never supersede
the business of duty. But a Redoran knows that to take pleasure in the arms of
your beloved, or to accept a bag of Septims for a task is no dishonor in of
itself. To honor your beloved is to honor the family, one of the most
fundamental aspects of Morrowind’s ancient and vaunted culture. And the heart of
a lowly sellsword can display greater valor than the most decorated knight. Any
Redoran that lives by the sale of their blade should aspire to honorable
conduct, if they hope to prosper in the Morrowind Guild of Fighters, an
institution forged in the blood and sweat of noble-hearted Redoran mercenaries.
This is good and honest work, worthy of House Redoran, if you’ve got the stones
for it, novitiate. The Guild always looks favorably on a son or daughter of
Redoran. And only the _most_ honorable can hope to ascend to the ranks of the
Redoran Guard, who are entrusted with upholding the laws of Morrowind and
protecting its settlements.

But, novitiate, make no mistake about House Redoran. We do not, as a Great
House, or as individuals, live for war. We are not _Nords_. In times of war we
muster the Grand Army of House Redoran to defend Morrowind. The Redoran Guard
polices the roadways and the streets, and ensures that the laws of Morrowind are
obeyed. Yes, we sponsor the Guild of Fighters, and yes, this is a guild of
mercenaries. Yes, many sons and daughters of Redoran have marched with, and even
commanded, the Imperial Legion, but we never forget our love of our homeland.
Great House Redoran lives to serve and protect. Our greatest joy is to _return
home_ and exchange our swords and spears for plows and picks. When war is over,
we farm, we mine, we smith. Our crops feed the people, our ebony enriches the
realm and our smiths craft great works. The greatest pride of the Redoran is
that we toil for Morrowind. We embody and uphold the ideal of the citizen
militia and there is never a time when Redoran does not answer the call to
defend Morrowind. To fail this calling is to fail as a Redoran.

But for all that we embody the way of the warrior and sponsor excellence in the
defence of the realm, remember always that Morrowind, Ald’Resdayn, was founded
on _both_ philosophical wisdom and martial excellence. True warriors do not live
by berserker rage like the Nords and Orcs. A Redoran holds their strength in
check for the greater struggles. If the Reclamations call you to fight, fight
without hesitation and with conviction. We met the Kyn of Dagon with our blades.
Remember that we willingly suffered for this, and suffered in honorable silence,
asking no reward. This is the Redoran way. But if, novitiate, it falls within
your power to resolve a conflict without violence, swallow your pride, and do
so. Redoran never fight simply to win glory and accolades. Leave such frivolity
to the less wise…or to the Nords. We attempted peace with the Argonians and we
made Armistice with the Septims and Medes. By doing so, we served Morrowind, not
our egos.

House Redoran can be joined by coming to our chapter houses in the capital,
Blacklight, the main settlement of House Redoran, and also on Raven Rock and in
Balmora. We also have representative offices in the Imperial City and have
representatives in Windhelm. We are spoken for strongly throughout the Guild of
Fighters.

And above all novitiate, never forget,

**“Life is hard. Judge, endure, and reflect. A careless life is not worth
living.”**
