---
title: Troll-Bitten, Worm-Burrowed, Stag-Tramped, Dredged By The Octopus
reddit: 2b2kj9
author: The_OP3RaT0R
date: 2014-07-18T19:16:56Z
---

> The following is a transcription of the Roscrean tale of how they learned to
> use the metal Mithril. While the myth is available to outsiders, the Roscreans
> closely guard the actual mechanics of smithing using the metal, and all
> exported Mithril undergoes a special process prior to export that enables it
> to be forged by normal means.

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

> When our ancestors came to this island, they fled war in our homeland. They
> had left in smaller numbers than did the others, as they knew that if they
> went along with the rest to Tamriel, they would not be free of what they first
> left Atmora to escape. If the war forced all out of the homeland, the warriors
> were all sailing to the same place.
>
> Our forebears had borne among the worst of the war; they left not because they
> were losing, but because they would not fight. Former members of every faction
> who would not go to war with their brothers. If our brethren today held the
> same attitude, things would be better, but that is a topic for another day.
> Because they would not fight, they fled, and when they landed, they were worse
> for wear.
>
> But they were a resilient people, and they clawed and scraped against the land
> and eked out a life. A hard life it was, for there were many ferocious beasts
> and little iron to be made into weapons. Many of our kin died then.
>
> One day, a scout searching for a vein of iron in the mountains chanced across
> a glimmer of pale silver, almost white, shining from within a great rock. He
> chipped away at the rock, exposing more and more of this substance, until a
> great mass of this metal was exposed. Even so, he eventually could not break
> any more of the rock, and so he decided to take one swing at the metal itself,
> which broke his pickaxe.
>
> The scout remembered where he had found the strange metal, and so he returned
> to his city and told of it, and his city told the next, who told the next, and
> so on. Though the people were very spread out, they were still one.
>
> When the scout returned later, with a party from each of the cities, the vein
> was gone. In its place stood a troll, a worm, and a stag. For this reason,
> this place is revered today.
>
> “Who are you, and where have you taken the metal?” the scout said to the
> animals. “You have no Cults that I know of.”
>
> “We are different from your Gods,” said the Worm, “but we are similar. We have
> taken your vein from this place, but do as we say and you will shield your
> eyes from the glare of all the metal you will dig up.”
>
> “What, then, must we do?” the scout asked.
>
> “First, come with me,” said the Stag. The Stag led the scout away from the
> others, and when they were in a vacant crag, the Stag held up a small speck of
> the metal. “Take this into your nose, know its smell. You will first Hunt for
> this metal you desire. All your descendants will do the same.”
>
> The scout did so. “Find your metal, then,” said the Stag. So the scout did. He
> crawled along under the width of the island, scaled the mountain peaks,
> crossed many a gorge, until he found his metal by a single glint of moonlight.
> A pickaxe of the same metal appeared in his hand, and the Stag climbed up
> behind him, beckoning him to unearth the ore. To this day, Roscreans can smell
> the Mithril, and that pickaxe is an artifact lost to the ages.
>
> The scout mined the ore, and when he pulled it up from the rock, he watched it
> change in his hand from ore to a sword. He looked and saw that the Troll
> towered over him, an Atmoran, which was truly a feat. “Your ancestors will
> forge this metal, but first you must be forged. You will earn your metal.”
>
> The scout’s furs were gone, and all that remained was the sword. The Troll
> kicked at the scout, who narrowly rolled away. For a fortnight, the Troll
> tried to crush the scout, and the scout tried to wound the Troll, and the
> fighting was relentless until the sunrise came. The scout grabbed the Troll’s
> fur and began to scale his back, where he could not be reached. Eventually he
> came to the Troll’s neck, where he plunged his blade. The Troll grabbed the
> scout and set him on the ground with his sword, the wound healing itself
> immediately. The sword would one day be lost to the ages. The scout’s furs
> were returned, and the Troll said, “You have earned this metal, but only you
> will mine it. It is your strength; be wary of giving it away.”
>
> When the Troll was gone, the Worm crawled onto the scout’s shoulder. “You have
> earned the metal, but it will not come when you call as a dog might. To
> prosper, you must go where you do not want to. There is a great vein of the
> ore beneath us, I know you smell it; dig for it, through the great darkness
> and pain.”
>
> The scout began to dig, from the top of the mountain down its center, never
> resting or letting up. He could not see, digging a tunnel only deep enough for
> his body to fit, and the top had caved in and trapped him a long time ago.
> Still he pressed on, until he came to the metal, surrounded by rock on all
> sides, deep below the island; he chipped away at the rock, and eventually the
> ore was freed, but it was still below the surface. So the scout dug up and up,
> until he had dug a hole to the open air, through which he carried the ore. The
> location of this hole has been lost, but it is said that it is on one of the
> northern cliffs at the coast.
>
> When the ore had all been unearthed, the Worm returned and said, “You have
> braved the dark and brought up the metal. Your people will do the same, and
> they will be stronger for it.” With that, the Worm was gone, and through the
> howling wind and crashing waves below the cliff where the scout stood, a deep
> voice boomed.
>
> “Cast yourself down to me, be enveloped in my folds, and I will teach you to
> use this metal. You will teach your people in turn, but they will come back to
> me every generation.”
>
> The scout hurled himself into the deep, and the long, black tentacles of an
> Octopus wrapped around him. The last the scout heard was the secrets of the
> metal.
>
> After the Octopus let him go, the scout floated off into the sea, but his
> knowledge was in the water of Roscrea; the people drank from it and learned to
> smith with the metal.
>
> Every generation, our people send four out to reclaim the metal; one to
> perform the Rite of the Hunt, one to Earn the Sword, one to Brave the Dark,
> and one to Learn the Secret. The metal is Miin-Thur-Iil, Eye-Overlord-Help,
> because we search for it tirelessly, because it was given by forces higher
> than us, because it is a great boon to our people. It is Mithril.

{:.handwriting}
