---
title: Soldier’s Prayer to Perrif
reddit: 2c7o07
author: Anonymous_Mononymous
date: 2014-07-31T04:51:06Z
---

For eons without end the land languished under the dominion of demons and their
mortal puppets, and men lived as slaves, unable to rise out of squalor and
oppression. But then Paravant rose like the morning star, a burning opalescent
crystal in the sky, and her soft radiance cleared away all the shadows of the
night. Hearths and hearts were filled with the fire of freedom and
fight-drunkenness. She came bearing a firebrand in one hand and a pile of clay
in the other. In times of war and darkness, she is a beacon-bearer and a
rekindler of sleeping coals. In times of peace, she mends the forges of mens’
souls, and makes whole the cracks which cause their hearts to grow cold.

O, Holy Perrif, without you Kyne’s breath would have brought frozen death out of
Atmora to all the sons and daughters of Shor. Icy winds bore down on the old
chieftains but they merely wore the frost with pride. You taught them that men
must submit to Love, that they cannot surrender to the cold, they are
responsible for maintaining the Dragonfires. And when Akatosh bestowed upon you
glowing sinews from his heart, you tamed mighty Morihaus. Leading him by the
horn, you incensed him into a great rage, and his breath-shout-whisper caused
the sinew of Akatosh to glow and shimmer and light the way for Pelinal to
return.

We thank you, Al-Esh, for the blessings you have given us. Please forgive us for
using them to kill our enemies. Pelinal is our hammer, and though the collateral
damage he causes is immense, it’s hard to get a war properly forged without a
reliable hammer. May Reman protect us from the worst of his madness, and give us
something solid to fall back on when all else fails.
