---
series: The Aftermath
part: 1
title: "Entry #1"
reddit: 2cx8v6
author: CreamWafers
date: 2014-08-07T21:45:56Z
about: |
  This is the beginning of a series. I have already written the next entry,
  which is more coherent and comprehensive, and will be posted tomorrow.
---

## 10^th^ Morning Star, 4E 199

That looks like land to the North. I don’t know what I expected, but the
temperature is what surprises me. How was I to know it was this cold? I’m no
forecaster. If I had known, we would have brought a few more casks of oil or at
least more clothes. No use worrying about it now. After all, it’s not
Atmora—hopefully the cold proves no more than an annoyance.

There’s a smart-mouthed Bosmer named Lideg who used to lead the caravan from 8
to 6 PM. Now he just sits below deck and poaches from our ink supply to write
letters to his fiancé (how will he even send them?). He is full-out positive
that the cold is from of the ash. He says the ash clouds “prevent magicka from
hitting Nirn and manifesting as heat.” Then again, Lideg also claims to have
seen a dragon once. There isn’t one educated man or mer in this search team
anyways. Most of my men _and mer, and a few women_{:tag="small"} are expelled
soldiers or criminals sentenced to hard labor. Except for the alteration mages.
~~It feels like~~ I’m the only one with a true interest in our work here.

No use in those thoughts. That pessimism there is from crossing the Inner Sea
during a storm. Other than that (and this blasted cold), everything is going
according to plan. Tired of writing now and someone just called my name
