---
series: The Aftermath
part: 6
title: "Entry #6"
reddit: 2d9k3g
author: CreamWafers
date: 2014-08-11T20:00:36Z
---

## 20^th^ Morning Star

Lideg,

Your letter reached me. I rewarded the messenger well as always. I’m happy
you’re alright, and am also very excited for our wedding. The guests might get a
bit rowdy though, so take care. I trust you have found a silversmith to give you
the ring. Wishing my mother-in-law good luck with moving out in the near future.

Love,

Amaya

---

## 24^th^ Morning Star, 4E 199

**Ascadian Isles Expedition, Vivec**

**Report 8.1: Location 2.0**

Approx. coordinates: 22528, -86016

Chambers: ~~4~~ 5 (estimate, danger)

Objects: 4

State: 1 not submersed/poor, 2 partially submersed/fiar, 3 submersed/poor, 4
submersed/dilapidated, 5 submersed/poor

Object 1: Location 2, class apparel/metal, state dilapidated/8 pieces, net lng.
3.67 ft., net wt. 18.01 lb., text false, portable true

Object 2: Location 2, class misc/gemstone, state fair/5 pieces (unbroken), net
lng. 0.59 in. each, net wt. 14g. total, text false, portable true

Object 3: Location 2, class container/wood, state poor/6 pieces, net lng. 11
in., net wt. 2.54 lb., text true, portable true

Object 4: Location 2, class tool/metal, state fair/1 piece, net lng. 5.2in., net
wt. 51g., text true, portable true

Notes: Object 2.0.2.1 appears to be a piece of glass armor. Object 2.0.2.2 was a
set of three amethysts, one emerald, and one ruby. These were contained in
object 2.0.2.3, the remains of a small chest. Object 2.0.2.4 was a key with the
same inscription as object 2.0.2.3. The chamber count for this canton is an
estimate. We did not search the presumed lowest level because the Dreughs within
posed too great of a threat. Therefore, we concluded the excavation of location
2.0 without searching chamber 2.0.5.

_Signed,_

_Drusus Varo, Overseer of the Ascadian Isles Expedition_
