---
series: The Aftermath
part: 16
title: "Entry #16"
reddit: 2dyn32
author: CreamWafers
date: 2014-08-19T06:54:37Z
---

## 6^th^ Sun’s Dawn, 4E 199

**Drusus Varo, Overseer of the Ascadian Isles Expedition**

As long as the ash storm persists, we are at a standstill. From my first
experience with this, I was sure that a bit of wind and dust is powerful enough
to defy the will of a god. But this time I take that notion more literally.
Here’s why.

The storm is drowning out Azura’s voice. But I suspect it’s actually the ward. I
had a dream last night and it was as vague as my first or second one. All I
remember is crossing a bridge. Experienced a two-second sensation of
fight-or-flight danger upon waking.

I’d be glad that my mood swings have dulled down, but they are only replaced
with a worse madness: Amaya’s voice. I try to see it objectively. As a way to
understand what we’re dealing with. But how ~~horrifying~~ ~~compelling~~
interesting it is. I try to notice the subtle shifts in tone and I fail. I
observe the forming of more complex phrases, the meaning to extract from them.
~~I must ignore. Must resist.~~

~~I heard something ab~~ I heard something about a great work. A way to unite
the believers under a powerful symbol. To travel to the tyrant’s realm and
banish it. That as the observer, I determine the Event (the way it sounded
suggested a capital letter, I don’t know).

~~Oh come on. Shit, I don’t even know what I think anymore. What I can really
call truth.~~

I can have faith in nothing, except my own perseverance. Red Year wasn’t enough
to start a new story. For better or for worse, I must settle the aftermath. It
is my calling.
