---
series: Ruling Kings, and Our Kingdoms
part: 1
title: A Foreword
reddit: 2e68yk
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-08-21T12:09:40Z
---

## My Brothers and Our Royalty

I have decided to inscribe a chronicle even though I am the accumulation of all
chronicles. A record about my Brothers and our shared thinking. Hjalti of course
does not see the usefulness in creating a literate work for his followers, but
prefers to show them through firsthand knowledge and actions. Vivec does both,
displaying his affection for his people through questionable deeds as well as
esoteric writings available to those that wish to learn it. No one achieves what
they advocate, however, and they hide their disappointment well.

And what of I? I muse to myself, and I only write. I was never as flamboyant as
the Warrior-Poet nor as renowned as the Red Jewel of Conquest, preferring to
stay within myself. My teachings are subtle, but hidden like me. I leave them in
cloaked places, and hope for someone to come across them. Some do not and some
do, but they are not wise enough to begin the steps towards Kingship and I am
saddened. I too must hide my disappointment, even though my Brothers can see it
and I can see theirs. We have no secrets from each other.

My role in the infinite is clear and so are theirs, for we are likened to the
Three in the stars and we bring them life on this plane. I have mediated on this
notion to write these self-reflections about God and his Kingdom for a
considerable amount of time, and it wasn’t until I had extensive dialogue with
both of my Brothers that I came to an answer.

Hjalti said, “I am the Sword.” Vivec said, “I am the Suit.” They looked at me,
waiting. “I am the Shield.” I have always been the Shield. “Who is our Wearer?”
we asked at the same time, and then simply stared at another. We had asked a
question we already knew and so we redrew from each other’s minds.

Perhaps I am writing my thoughts for the Wearer. He is not here yet, but he will
be soon. We await him. We wish to be used, for without him we are trapped. With
us, he’ll be complete and find the New Land Always Promised. Or maybe this is
for the Truant? Ah yes, the Truant…I leave my mantle with you. Please, cover
yourself with it. Be covered in it to become a Greater King than Me, and help
him become the Greatest King of all.

—HRAHNDEYL
