---
title: "Research Notes on the True Nature of Spellbreaker [Revised]"
reddit: 2ej4g9
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-08-25T14:13:43Z
---

Written By Eis Vuur Warden, Historian and Scholar of the Imperial Geographical
Society Circa 4E 1

The first time I was able to examine this legendary Daedric artifact was when I
was personally rewarded it by the Taskmaster himself after performing a service
for him. I had been a worshipper of Peryite since the dawning days of the Second
Era and this had been my first time receiving an item from him. Of course, that
was before I became afflicted with my current condition and expelled from the
Blighted Lord’s service.

Nevertheless I returned to my small alcove in the swamps of Murkmire to begin
sketching the shield in order to study it’s intricacies, for even in my youth I
was a fledging scholar. Any true historian worth his credentials knows about the
infamous Battle of Rourken-Shalidor in the First Era, where the Spellbreaker was
first purportedly sighted. I was intrigued by the thought of how much raw
magicka this seemingly ordinary Dwemer shield contained, and so I devoted almost
all of my time examining. I nearly starved myself conducting these studies and
probably would have if my fellow cultists hadn’t checked on me every now and
then. I was glad, however, when I developed some interesting results from my
observations.

Just by looking at the shield’s appearance one can tell something is different
about it. Many other Dwemer shields are rather dull in design; Spellbreaker
however has an intricate and unique design that radiates both authority and
prestige. Despite being one of the more ancient relics in Tamriel, it bears no
visible signs of wear on its surface and any attempts to mark it any shape or
fashion fail.

Spellbreaker’s most interesting feature however – and the reason why it is so
widely sought by both mages and warriors alike – is that it has the ability to
generate a shield of pure magicka, similar to a traditional Ward spell. This
magicka shield can absorb spells cast by enemies effortlessly. It can also
silence mages before they can utter a single word for spellcasting if it is
facing them. These attributes makes this shield extremely proficient and
valuable.

The Ward that the shield generates seems to emit directly from the shield
itself, which is similar to how the other Daedric artifacts use the power of
their patron Daedra Lord. It also seems to be able to withstand incredible
amounts of magicka. I tested this strength by using spells from both the Schools
of Destruction and Conjuration to no avail. I went to sleep for the first time
in days, and when I woke up Spellbreaker was gone. Perhaps it had gone off to
look for its old owner? Regardless, shortly afterwards I was released from
Peryite’s ‘employment’ when I received my curse. My Spellbreaker research was
postponed while I searched for new place to live where I wouldn’t be persecuted
for my new status in society.

It was centuries later when I came across Spellbreaker again. I was approached
by a mysterious gentleman, who gave me the magical shield with little comment.
Of course, I was skeptical about this ‘Spellbreaker’ and tested it to see if it
was the same shield I had the pleasure of holding so many years go. I was
surprised to see that it was, and immediately began to conduct secondary
observations.

I seemed to unlock another of Spellbreaker’s unique abilities during these
experiments. It was now possible for the Ward to split into two smaller Wards
during battle for greater diversity and strategic movement. This however caused
the Wards themselves to be weaker in comparison to the unified Ward and so I
reverted the shield back to its original setting.

Because the shield was crafted by the Dwemer Rourken Clan, I traveled to
Hammerfell to study the Dwarven ruins scattered there. In one ruin I was able to
find what seemed to be blueprints for a shield that resembled Spellbreaker, but
before I was able to copy them they deteriorated from old age. I was amazed at
how long the shield had decided to stay with me (only a fool doesn’t know that
Daedric artifacts don’t have a mind of their own) and realized this was a great
opportunity to test it in a real combat situation. I paid a Sellsword to attack
me with any spell she had memorized once I returned to Sutch. Armed with both
the shield and a spear, I was able to quickly bring my opponent down without
much difficulty. During the battle I discovered that the shield was able to
reflect curses and I was amazed when the Sellsword’s Fear spell backfired,
literally. Contented with my current notes, I returned to home in the Imperial
city and hung the shield on the wall. There was still one question that
remained, however. What did Peryite have to do with the Rourken?

Some theories suggest that the Rourken made blasphemous claims about Peryite and
in retaliation the Taskmaster cursed them all with a terrible plague. Growing
desperate, the Dwemer shamefully built the Spellbreaker to appease the Daedric
Prince and so the curse was lifted. Another popular theory starts similar, but
branches off by stating that the famous Archmage Shalidor was given the stolen
shield by Peryite so he could he destroy the Rourken for him unknowingly. Some
scholars believe that Shalidor was a worshipper of Peryite, but that has yet to
be confirmed. The most bizarre theory is that the Spellbreaker was just an
ordinary shield that Peryite enchanted during the Battle of Rourken-Shalidor to
seek vengeance on Shalidor himself. Whatever the case, no one truly knows why
Spellbreaker is Peryite’s chosen artifact. Perhaps it will always be a mystery.

I awoke the next day and discovered that Spellbreaker had once again taken its
leave from my possession. Fortunately, I don’t think I will need it again. I
have written quite the notes on the artifact, and I think the shield itself
knows that too.

(Note by Ancestor Moth Brother Quintus Nerevelus: Is there something wrong with
the printing presses as of late? There seems to be a number of books with
publishing dates from beyond the Second Era in our library. What is increasingly
odd about this one is that I have met it’s author before. In fact, he is still
alive today. But Eis refers to many things that I have not heard of in the past
tense. Did he write this as a joke? I hope not, for he isn’t the type to joke
around with his scholarly work. Or is there something even stranger going on…)
