---
title: Keeping the Green
subtitle: Fire and Cooking
reddit: 2fl1x9
author: lebiro
date: 2014-09-05T21:12:31Z
pseudonym: Harman Maurus – 3E 430
---

For the Boiche of Valenwood, no law is more sacred than the Green Pact. The
strictures of this sacred compact between the Bosmer and their forest god,
Y’ffre, govern every aspect of Bosmeri life. The most important of these by far
forbids the Bosmer to harm the plant life of their forest home, precluding the
use of the plant products on which our lives so often depend. This sacred law
has forced the Bosmer to develop an unrivaled ingenuity in finding
Pact-compliant alternatives to plant matter in all fields.

The most obvious of these is the carnivorous Bosmeri diet. But beyond this, with
no wood for the fire, how are the Boiche to cook the fruits of their hunts? It
is too often assumed that they simply subsist on a diet of raw flesh, and while
this _is_ true of certain deep-woods tribes, the vast majority of Bosmer enjoy a
carnivorous cuisine of fascinating variety and complexity.

Depending on the resources available, several clans burn coal or peat soil on
their fires. However, in areas where coal and peat are not in abundance, or are
not accessible without unacceptable deforestation, yet more creative methods are
necessary. Perhaps the most creative, but in many ways the most obvious, is the
surprising use of magic.

Many tribes entrust the cooking of their meat to individuals known as “Meat
Mages”[^1], although squeamishly polite scholars often use softer terms. These
Meat Mages are highly specialised practitioners of what Imperial wizards would
categorise as destruction magic. These are no apprentice battlemages, however;
their skills are not by any means limited to the indiscriminate spraying of
flame. Indeed the Meat Mages are capable of a degree of delicacy and precision
quite unparalleled among scholastic mages. In the pursuit of culinary
excellence, they apply the perfect heat, size, duration, and direction of flame.
Indeed, while the School of Destruction might group them in common, rest assured
that a Bosmeri Meat Mage carefully singeing to perfection a haunch of venison
can in no way be compared to even the most talented of battlemages scorching his
foes.

So important is the hunt, meat, and meal to clan life among the Bosmer that the
Meat Mage might be counted alongside elders, healers, and Storytellers among the
village’s most prominent figures. When the hunters of the clan return
triumphant, it is to the Meat Mage they will bring their choicest cuts. It is
then the privilege of hunter and mage that the cut will be prepared with all the
prodigious skill of the latter.

Among city-dwelling Bosmer, the Meat Mage has, as with so many aspects of
traditional tribal life, been domesticated to an extent. In the urban centres of
Valenwood, Meat Mages are often employed by eateries and inns without coal of
peat in much the fashion of a skilled chef in other provinces. Other, more
traditional Meat Mages operate their own premises, where townsfolk may have
their meat prepared and where hunters may gather after their successful sorties
to share stories and their choice cuts, just as in the village.

The Meat Mages are a fascinating expression of how unique needs can lead to
unique skills. The Green Pact challenges the Bosmer in innumerable ways, but
they prove consistently able to survive and thrive within the framework of the
Green Pact, in accordance with the enigmatic wishes of their deities.

[^1]: Translating Bosmeris is a necessarily inexact art as double-meanings and
conflations abound. This translation in particular is a difficult one, as both
“meat” and “mage” occupy enormous and hazy semantic fields. Dependent on dialect
and context, “meat” might instead be translated as “flesh”, “body”, “system”, or
even “world”, while “mage” might mean also “artist”, “craftsmer”, “thinker”, or
any number of only loosely-connected words. Thus the term for “Meat Mage” might
in different tribes or regions describe also a healer or chirurgeon, a tattoo
artist, even a philosopher or alterationist.
