---
title: A Short History of Yneslea
reddit: 2ft25t
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-09-08T13:49:23Z
---

Vorst Infernus Weard, Agent of the Imperial Commission of Foreign Affairs

## \[From The Introduction\]

In the 508th year of the First Era the Noraken, a Dwarven Clan, split off from
their brethren on mainland Vvardenfell and traveled eastward over differences in
scholarly pursuit, eventually coming to the eight islands that in future times
would become known as the region of Yneslea. Uninhabited besides from the native
wildlife and the simpleminded goblins known as the Hyu-Ket (whose origins are a
mystery), the Dwarves established a new society on the isles independent of the
city-states in Hammerfell and Morrowind. They note the many species of bats in
the caverns, but largely ignore them as they begin constructing new cities and
automatons.

In their use of the mysterious arcane art known as Tonal Architecture, the bats
that resided in the caverns with them become affected by its power and begin to
slowly undergo a metamorphosis. The Dwarves see and become fascinated by this
change, attempting to manipulate it. The ancestors of the Echmer, called the
Protoechi, are created at this time and become slaves to the Noraken. In return,
the Dwarves teach the fledgling race arithmetic, literacy, and much of their
ideology. The Protoechi create many bizarre strongholds unique to their
imagination, and decide to name their race the “Echmer”.

When the Disappearance of the Dwarves occurred at the Battle of Red Mountain in
1E 700, the Noraken also suffer the same fate. This leads to chaotic confusion
between the Echmer (modern day bat elves refer to them as Protoechi), and the
race dissolves into a terrible civil war. After an unknown amount of time passes
three of the armies unite under their rulers and defeat all others, establishing
the first incarnation of the Council of Dull Chimes in 1E 704. Five armies
refused to being ruled by the Troika, and one year later became the Penta Wards
led by the new High Hypothesian, who were integrated into the now permanent
eight-member seat of the Council.

It wasn’t until the 1E 708 that the Echmer began to make excursions to the
surface in what they call The Fourteen Years of Progress, where they discovered
the Yak (which became integral to their society for its milk) and solarite ore
veins. The Hyu-Ket, who they viewed as lesser folk, were utilized as slaves and
this practice didn’t end until sometime in the Second Era. Eventually, all of
the Echmer Urbs and constructions were finished in 1E 728.

For the first time in history the Echmer would make contact with an entirely
foreign race in the form of an invasion in 1E 735, when the Kamal of Akavir
invaded both Yne and Slea at the same time (the former by way of the Hae’macrin
Mountains and the latter by way of Urroal). Echmeri records say the fleet was
led by General Tala’Faal Yir-Kamal, who attempted to annex the area under their
king. Through superior battle tactics and deployment of their automatons – which
the Kamal had never encountered before – the Echmer were able to drive back the
invaders. This resulted in a bitter resentment towards foreigners to manifest in
the bat elves and the Akaviri races in general, which would not be helped by the
Kamal continuing invasions that they would have to repeatedly repel.

Hrahndeyl, the Echmer who would apotheosize to become the god-hero known as
HRAHNDEYL, was born in the year 1E 738 under mysterious circumstances. Accounts
vary on his time as a mortal, although established facts are that he was
banished from his home in 747 and wandered Nirn for twenty-years before
returning to Yneslea to speak of the new things he had discovered. To display
his new knowledge, he achieved permanence in the fabric of reality by building
the Pleonastic Spire to pierce through the Black-Welkin, becoming a Genius Loci
of the Echmeri Collective of ATEDA. This event caused a reformation in the
Echmer mindset, with them now focusing on religious beliefs as well as scholarly
pursuits.

The Echmer would live (relatively) in peace for thousands of years, braving
assaults from the Kamal, Tsaesci, and internal strife until the Third Era.
During Uriel Septim V’s Akaviri Campaign, the Yneslian islands found themselves
being stormed by the Tamrielics which started the Twelvemonth War in 278.
Arrogant of their winnings against the Kamal in the past, the Echmer went out to
face their new foe only to be surprised to find a force to be reckoned with
waiting for them. Despite fighting valiantly, the Echmer were forced to
surrender and signed a Treaty with the Emperor, who met with the Council of Dull
Chimes (and also the god-hero HRAHNDEYL according to legend) and annexed the
islands as a Tamrielic territory in 3E 279.

After the Akaviri Campaign ultimately failed, the legions largely redrew from
the islands. The Echmeri traded their cream with the Empire – which the
Tamrielics absolutely adored – along with other supplies for Tamrielic books,
scrolls, and animal/plant specimens for study. Yneslea remained largely
uninhabited by Tamrielics until 3E 425, when the Council of Dull Chimes
begrudgingly agreed to foreign settlement of their lands…

## \[On The Yneslian Archipelago\]

Yneslea is made up of eight islands, which are all connected by the massive
underground cavern system known as the Dweech (suggesting that these landmasses
are only separated by water and are actually one continent):

Yne is the largest and one of the two main islands of Yneslea, the other being
Slea. It was the first landmass of the Imperial territory discovered by the
Empire, and thus has more signs of its presence there. It has three regions: the
snowy Hae’macrin Mountains, the sandy prairie of the Opal Coast, and the
beautiful taiga of the Ambient Littoral.

Slea is one of the two main islands of Yneslea, the other being its sister Yne.
It is more exotic and “untamed” compared to its other half, and the settlements
here are suited for a harsh and unforgiving environment. It too boasts three
regions: the brutal desert known as Gtutur’s Arids, a dense woodland called the
Melodic Forest, and the barren but rocky landscape of Urroal.

Hrahn’s Isles is a chain of three closely-knit islets to the north of Yne and
Slea, consisting of rolling dirt hills, prickly grass, and small bushes. It is
largely uncared for by the Echmer, and only one small Exul settlement persists
on it.

Morubixaba is a rather small island to the east of Yne and Slea, home to a group
of Exul and Hyu-Ket that live together in peace and harmony unlike those of the
other lands, suggesting a cultural schism sometime in ages long since forgotten.
The inhabitants also have a different language and society, resulting in the
common Echmer observing it intensely. It boasts geography similar to that of
Hrahn’s Isles, except having more rainfall.

Elysia is a southern island, and seems to be somewhat of a vacation resort to
the Echmer. It has a beautiful, tropical environment and is largely undisturbed
by the politics of the other islands. Interestingly, there seems to be home to
ancient ruins predating both the Echmer, Hyu-Ket, and the Dwemer’s arrival on
Yneslea.

Pasgaviati was once an abandoned island neglected by the Echmer to the west
because of its distance, but has been since resettled as a native military
outpost ran by both the natives and the Imperial Legion.

In recent years the Empire faces difficulty with Yneslea, primarily with illegal
East Empire Company activities, radical groups of xenophobic natives, pirates
from other territories (like Esrionet), and Imperial power struggles. Colonists
are being killed by the hour and Echmer are being targeted by certain extreme
hate groups. Many fear that negotiations between the Council of Dull Chimes and
the Empire will break down completely, and another Twelvemonth War will begin
again…
