---
series: Smoking Traditions of Tamriel
part: 1
title: The Niben
reddit: 2g36hk
author: OrdoCorvus
date: 2014-09-11T08:50:50Z
---

No people anywhere on Tamriel partake of such a wide variety of smokable
pleasures as the people of the Nibenese spanse. Integrating cultural influences
from the nearby Colovian west and Morrowind in the north, to traditions
integrated long ago from lands both exotic and far away.

No means are so integrated among the Nibenese as that of the Kiseru pipe, a
hold-over from the Halcyon days of the Akaviri Potentates. The Kiseru has its
origins in distant Akavir, where the pipes were made by the same artisans who
decorated elaborate sword-fittings as a means of peacetime income. The Kiseru is
as much an implement of smoking as it is a symbol of status, the amount of
embellishment being seen as indicator of the owner’s wealth. While rice-farmers
can be seen smoking simple Kiseru as they work their paddies, the landed elite
take great pleasure in comparing the length and decoration of their beautiful
pipes. For this reason (and due to the pipes impressive length), the Kiseru is
worn hanging from the belt, along with a small, wood or leather tobacco box,
which itself is a decorative item as well.

The Kiseru consists of long shaft of Bamboo or River-cane, with a small metal
bowl on one end and a mouthpiece on the other. Given that the length can get in
the way of one’s working, the length of the pipe is seen almost as much as
indicator of wealth as the embellishments! A farmer or craftsman cannot due with
an exceptionally long pipe getting in the way of his working, ergo longer pipes
are often seen in the possession of those required to perform less physical
tasks in their day-to-day lives. Among the Nobility, it is not uncommon to see
pipes of several feet or more, their shafts wrapped with cloth hangers
embroidered with names of prodigious ancestors or patron deities. These long
pipes sometimes reach such lengths that the efforts of a servant are required in
loading and lighting, and can carry market values in the thousands of septims.
Kiseru fittings are typically crafted of steel and embellished with brass,
copper, silver, gold, and orichalc decorations. Among the very elite, ebony is
rarely seen, as is Vvardenfell glass.

Kiseru are used for smoking a special type of very finely shredded called
Kizami. The Kizami is pinched into a small bowl and smoked quickly. This tobacco
is known for its harsh, hot burn and heavy nicotine punch that are not readily
welcomed by outsiders.

Elsewhere in the Niben, paticularly around county Bravil, rough, cone-shaped
cigars, locally called “Cheapees” are popular, particularly among the poorer
classes. These are often hand-rolled by the user and bear none of the neat
uniformity of their artisan-made, western Colovian counterparts. They are
typically of very dark, strong tobacco and are held with some disdain even among
the lower classes, likely due to their association with deepest poverty and
pungent, off-putting odor. Frequently the filling of these Cheapees is drizzled
with a few drops of skooma before rolling, if the user has that predilection.

Waterpipes, called Huqqa, are popular in the south, a trend brought in by
Khajiiti traders. These range from cheap, disposable pipes to high-end,
artisan-crafted treasures. The cheaper pipes are made of a simple turned wooden
shaft fitted into a bottle made of coconut shell, with a cane tube for smoking,
these pipes are sometimes (disparagingly) referred to as Goza, and are often
used for smoking illicit substances, such as marijuana weed (frequently laced
with moon-sugar). The more elaborate huqqa are frequently made of brass, copper,
or silver, decorated with engravings or cloisonne, and are used to smoke tobacco
that has been blended with a variety of spices, minced fruits, and then treacled
in molasses, mixed in various ways producing substances known as Moassel or
Jurak. Some Khajiiti moassel will use molasses refined from moon-sugar, and the
prospective smoker should take great care to know what they are getting.

Briar pipes from High Rock are not uncommon, with an exceedingly long style
popular among the clergy. These are used to smoke botique tobaccos, grown in the
Niben and then shipped to High Rock and Morrowind for curing and preparation,
then shipped back. This style of smoking is seen as relatively new and foreign,
displacing the popularity of the Kiseru in some regions where newer settlers
have gained foothold.
