---
title: The Country Gentleman’s Diary – 4E201
reddit: 2gb21h
author: EnstoneDC
date: 2014-09-13T18:32:07Z
about: |
  Hello Teslore! I’m a small time contributor to the Beyond Skyrim project at
  Dark Creations under the name Enstone, and I’ve been inspired in a lot of my
  writing by some of the fantastic books, articles and theories over here. So,
  I’ve decided to cross post a few choice bits and pieces. This little manual,
  inspired by the real life Special Auxiliaries Unit set up in the UK to combat
  an expected Axis invasion, will be dotted around a few choice homes and farms
  in the Cyrodiilic countryside.
---

1. PREPARING FOR A THALMOR INVASION
   1. Overview
   1. Your Role as a Special Auxiliary Unit
   1. Basic Guerrilla Strategy
2. DESIGNING AND BUILDING A “BOLTHOLE”
   1. Simple Dugouts
   1. Advanced Engineering
   1. Living off the Land
   1. Building an Armory
   1. Foiling Search Parties
   1. Escape Routes
3. SILENT KILLING
   1. Knife Techniques
   1. Bows
   1. Simple Spells
   1. Traps
4. GOING LOUD
   1. Longswords and Battleaxes
   1. Explosives
   1. Crafting Anti-Magic Armor
   1. Siege Weapons and You
5. TARGETS
   1. Reconnaissance
   1. Forward Camps
   1. Field Hospitals
   1. Supply Trains
   1. Forts and Castles
   1. Collaborators and Occupied Civil Districts
6. CO-ORDINATION AND ESSENTIAL STRATEGY
   1. Legion Strategy in the Event of Invasion
   1. The Chain of Command
   1. Re-establishing Contact with the Legion and other Resistance Cells

## SECTION I – PREPARING FOR A THALMOR INVASION

### SUBSECTION I – OVERVIEW

In the event of a military defeat of the Imperial Legion by the forces of the
Aldmeri Dominion, an occupation of Cyrod and its territories is certain. This
occupying army will be brutal, bloody, and ready to use any means necessary to
crush resistance. And yet, the people of the Empire will resist, will persevere
and will prevail, and as a member of the Special Auxiliary Unit, you shall lead
the vanguard. This guide, disguised as a humble diary, has been presented to you
by a liaison within the Imperial Legion Special Operations Division because you
have been deemed a person with the correct drive, attitude and ability to wage a
guerrilla war against the invaders. Your liaison will periodically meet with you
to ensure that you remain committed to keeping the spirit of the Empire alive,
as well as ensure you are fully prepared for insurrection. Following an
invasion, contact with your liaison will prove unlikely, if not impossible – as
such, you will become self-sufficient, able to select your own targets and act
independently until such a time that contact with the Imperial Legion can be
re-established. This guide will take you through the process of constructing
your own “bolthole”, a hidden retreat complete with air vents, safety mechanisms
and armories, selecting a target that will cause the maximum amount of
disruption to the Thalmor war machine, and ways of effecting your mission
without drawing undue attention to yourself or your cell. Finally, as an agent
of the Special Auxiliary Unit, you will be expected to undertake
life-threatening missions on a regular basis. The estimated operational lifespan
of an agent in the event of an invasion is two months. Captured agents can
expect torture and execution, and the most successful acts of rebellion will
result in bloody reprisals from Elf soldiers on unarmed populaces. Effective
resistance against the Dominion is utterly essential to the war effort, but it
is not for the light of heart. If you have any doubts or reservations about your
position, your liaison will provide the necessary forms to have your name
removed from all records of active personnel.

## SECTION I – PREPARING FOR A THALMOR INVASION

### SUBSECTION II – YOUR ROLE AS A SPECIAL AUXILIARY UNIT

Put simply, as a member of the Special Auxiliary Unit, your job is to harass the
enemy, wherever they may be and at whatever the cost. You will be quiet,
efficient, unassuming, and above all, deniable. If war with the Dominion was to
break out, Legion strategy is to—

(The rest of the pages have been torn out.)

<style type="text/css">
  @counter-style paren-right {
    system: extends decimal;
    suffix: ") ";
  }
  @counter-style roman-emdash {
    system: extends upper-roman;
    suffix: " – ";
  }
  ol {
    list-style-type: paren-right;
  }
  ol ol {
    list-style-type: roman-emdash;
  }
</style>
