---
title: Orcish Colonies of the Iliac Hinterlands
reddit: 2gouvd
author: myrrlyn
date: 2014-09-17T19:48:06Z
---

Orcs have long been sighted in the wilderness surrounding the Iliac Bay,
especially in the mountain ranges of Wrothgar and the Dragontail. Scholars have
put forth hypothesis after hypothesis to explain why the beastfolk so stubbornly
persist in Tamriel’s northwest while being far more rare, perhaps even extinct,
elsewhere in Tamriel. However, such epidemiology is merely an ivory-tower
abstraction that serves little use in the day-to-day affairs of avoiding or
killing the foul creatures.

I am no warrior myself, merely a humble scholar of Bretony and now Cyrod, but I
have accompanied many an expedition into the field to study the Orcs so that we
might better learn to resist and overcome them.

## Hammerfell

In Hammerfell, the Orcish population stays largely to the Dragontail mountains,
as the province’s fertile rim is firmly defended by an entrenched Redguard
population and the interior desert of the Alik’r far too inhospitable for even
the frighteningly-hardy monsters. I have received reports from the occasional
party of Redguards venturing into the Alik’r (deliberately risking one’s life
appears to be a rite of passage and mark of bravado in every culture’s youth)
stating that traces of Orcish passage have been found, so perhaps the beasts
roam the sands as well, but as they are so rarely encountered, such is merely a
curiosity.

The Dragontail Mountains themselves provide a somewhat less hostile environment
than the Alik’r, and was one of the first places to which the Orcish horde fled
when the Ra Ga’da first chased them out of the shore in the First Era. Much as
waves break upon cliffs, so too did Yokuda’s Warrior Wave break upon the
mountain fastnesses to which the Orcs ran. The Orcs dug themselves into the
stones and have refused to be harried out, though continual and nigh-ritualistic
strife between the tribes and the Redguard warrior bands of the surrounding
kingdoms has kept their numbers small and their axes sharp.

The Orcs of Dragontail have never had an opportunity to build a city such as
Orsinium even once, given the persistent raids between both sides. Rather, the
bands of Orcs, which almost never exceed two hundred strong, roam the mountains,
following wildlife including herds of mountain goats, sounders of wild pigs, and
even aurochs and chulls. They have constructed numerous small holdfasts
scattered throughout the mountain range, at which they will stay for a time to
breed, recuperate, and gather resources before striking out into the wilderness
again.

The Redguards have made something of a science of following the roving patterns
of each band, and make sport of targeting specific tribes at specific times
while avoiding any others. The most prized achievement, of course, is to strike
out for the heart of the mountains, seeking out a large clan and either
decimating it if the warriors wish to practice combat, or taking prisoners or
goods if they wish to practice stealth, and then returning to their city
undetected.

The largest and most long-lived Orc clans have even been given names by the
Redguards, some of which I have listed here for reference:

- The Sea Pigs, also called Or-sea-mer or Shorks (a bad portmanteau of Shark and
  Orc), depending on whom you ask, display a rare quality of their kind, namely,
  an affinity for water and claim the shoreline of the northern Dragontails and
  live in caves along the coast. They like to prey upon passing ships, and have
  developed various flippers which they can attach to hands and feet to swim at
  great speeds. As they possess neither the equipment nor the capability for
  constructing ships, they swim to their prey, board, and capture the ship, then
  bring it home by deliberately dashing it against the rocky coast. Once the
  ship is broken, those who remained on shore come out to scavenge. Despite the
  danger of Sea Pig attacks, sailing close to shore is still necessary as the
  Iliac’s frequent storms are far worse on open sea, and when the Shorks are
  inland, there is no risk other than the well-charted rocks.

- The Stone Skulls claim the Dragontails just south of the coast down to about
  the latitude of Kozanset. Exact demarcations are impossible, as the Orcs know
  no borders and territory is enforced only when two bands collide. The Stone
  Skulls earned their name from their custom of constantly striking their skulls
  with rocks, beginning when they are about five or six. The constant barrage of
  light, but consistent, blows causes small fractures at the impact site, and
  the bone grows back thicker to compensate. Over the years, these Orcs develop
  massive, thick skulls, eschewing helmets in favor of the armor they so
  brutally force themselves to grow. They also greatly enjoy headbutting their
  enemies, striking with sufficient force to break bones in the victim.

  Whether this custom reduces their intelligence or not is difficult to say, as
  Orcs display little measurable qualities of this in the first place.

- South of the Stone Skulls roam the Dusky Tuskies. They are largely average for
  Orcs, though with brown skin rather than green, and their teeth grow to be
  unusually large. Tusks from these are prized by the Redguards, and commonly
  made into drinking vessels.

- The Sand Snakes inhabit the desert near Dak’fron and, interestingly enough,
  worship Boethiah rather than Malacath or Mauloch or Malak or however any of
  the savages unusual and well-trained enough to pick up a pencil spells the
  name of that Troublesome prince. They attack the other Orcs as viciously as
  they attack Hammerfell, gaining them some measure of forebearance from the
  Redguards. After all, watching one’s enemies take care of themselves is as
  hilarious as it is useful.

- The Wind-Walker clan is perhaps the farthest-roaming, and is difficult to
  pursue as they eschew use of the holdfasts the other tribes have constructed
  over the centuries. They are almost continually on the move, and leave little
  trace of their passage. Most Orcs have stamina to rival horses, but these in
  particular have been known to run for days on end without relent and still be
  in fighting shape on arrival.

- The Falling Rocks live in the highlands near Ephesus, and earned this
  particular moniker for exactly the reason you would expect. They like throwing
  boulders at things.

- The Dust Demons are the most feared and reviled troop. No Redguard has ever
  survived a confrontation with them, and we only know of their existence from
  attacks that have happened when all the other large gangs were known to be
  elsewhere. They burn anything they don’t pillage, and presumably take
  prisoners, but these have never been recovered. Little is known of their
  migratory patterns, but they seem to avoid other warbands, so the presence of
  other Orcs, though of course an unwelcome blight in itself, at least serves as
  assurance that the Dust Devils are somewhere else.

## Wrothgar

The Wrothgarian Orcs are more (in)famous than their Dragontail cousins, most
notably for their muleheaded stubbornness in continuing to build Orsinium in the
same location time and time again, each time drawing the Redguards and Bretons
to burn and raze it. Orsinium is in a good location; defensible valley, arable
land around them, quarries close at hand, but their insistance on attempting to
build a large fortress rather than wandering as in the south prevents them from
leaving, and they never have enough time between raids to actually accomplish
something.

There are smaller clans throughout the Wrothgarian mountains, and as a whole
they are far more settled than the nomads of the Dragontail. They have even been
able to domesticate the wildlife there, and herds of enormous shaggy centipedes,
rock-skinned cattle, and sky-drakes are common sights on the horizon. How the
Orcs manage to hide them from Breton raiders is something of a mystery, but
hunters have never had much success against the Orcs’ flocks. They have also
managed to cultivate wild grains, though as plants cannot be driven, these
fields are burned far more regularly.

Due to the geologic differences between the two ranges (the Dragontails are far
more craggy, arid, and bare than the Wrothgarians, which have been weathered
extensively and are smoother, shallower, and more arable), the Orcish
populations are very different. Wrothgarian Orcs tend to congregate far more,
and tribes grow massive and widespread. Although the population in any given
location is not likely to be very large, allegiance between settlements is far
stronger than that in the Dragontails, where the bands actively avoid each
other.

One interesting development by the Wrothgarian Orcs is, surprisingly enough,
soap. They were the first to discover how to render fat in such a way to create
soap, though they did not initially use it for hygeine as do humans, but rather
coat themselves with it before going into battle to make themselves slippery and
to mask their scent. Soap quickly spread throughout Wrothgar when it was
discovered that those who used it were less likely to die of contagion and its
utility in combat was also proven.

Lastly, due to their more sedentary nature, the Wrothgarian Orcs craft their own
metal weapons and armor in far greater numbers than do the Dragontail Orcs,
which rely on scavenging for the most part as their own works are largely of
stone and wood and bone. This has given the Wrothgarian Orcs a deadliness that
is not to be underestimated, as though they lack the metallurgical refinements
of modern craftsmen, there is nothing to dismiss about a muscle-bound brute
wearing far more metal than an average human warrior can carry in full charge.
Run or get out of the way; an Orcish Juggernaut stops for nothing.

Wrothgar’s notable tribes are:

- Khomokh: Primarily herdsmen and farmers, the Khomokh are reputed to be the
  first to invent soap. They are the most nomadic of the Wrothgarian tribes,
  only settling to winter in Strongholds before wandering again come spring.
  They frequently raid Breton farms and pastures, but generally avoid villages.
  The Khomokh are excellent with camouflage and see nothing dishonorable about
  hiding and waiting in ambush.

- Garitag: Controlling the area’s richest mines, the Garitag are excellent (by
  low Orcish standards) craftsmen and metalworkers. They make weapons and armor
  to trade with the other clans, and often serve as mercenary troops for the
  Khomokh in exchange for food. They tend to live exclusively in mountain
  Strongholds, striking forth to raid throughout the region and returning home
  before armies can be mobilized against them. Breton troops have often
  destroyed their fortresses at not-insignificant cost, but they have proven
  difficult to stamp out entirely.

- Lastly of the major clans is, of course, the Dokkaz, who stubbornly refuse to
  abandon their dream of an Orcish city. They are already well-known enough that
  writing about them further would serve no purpose, but it should be noted that
  while attacking them is incredibly easy (they are ALWAYS in that valley of
  theirs), it is likewise incredibly costly.

There are, of course, numerous smaller tribes, offshoots, and outcasts wandering
the hills as well, though these are too numerous and small to account.

Although Orc-hunting is not as much of a sport in High Rock as it is in
Hammerfell, the Breton armies are no less assiduous in hunting them down.
Wherever the Orcs are permitted to roam, they are a threat to civilized life and
must be held at bay. They are without argument uncivilized, simple brutes, but
they should not be underestimated, as many a man, confident in his modern armor
and weaponry and training, has discovered.

—Anaximander
