---
title: Excerpts From “The Ballad of Thødrek Troll-Song”
reddit: 2hgs71
author: ServerOfTheInvertedU
date: 2014-09-25T20:53:49Z
---

> ```verse
> 20th First Seed, 4E195
> Magickal Contributions from Cult Activity in Early 3E
> Skyrim: Thesis Notes
> Marcus Vala: Seventh-Grade Undermystic, Arcane University
> ```

{:tag="aside" .text-right}

Today I received a new lead on some bizarre cult activity for this province that
may even be running today. I can’t help but hope that it’s true; to observes an
exotic ritual would be a major boon to my research! I was dining in a tavern in
Winterhold, when a particularly grizzled Nord entered and began rallying the
rest of the patrons. Like a proper collector of lore, I jumped at the chance to
jot down his story:

> Bryla! Drifa vid mødositte hjot lie bryla gylden tal um thrud lof o ill urd.
> Vrag lod finnar skulna hofska nordar. Thet saga varnar um feiland
> manustrengthu.
>
> Iva fjør Heimskva Kong valvi fulja hrein kynefyll o uvra lof o geirearm valvi
> obeitat i brylva halde. Uvra nafn valvi Thødrek Grahlhjold. Faar frøsslar
> gandrar uve i thet gard, ak hyra valvi uvra føre o throk!

{:.text-italic}

Translation:

> Lo! Gather ye upon your mead-benches such that you may hear a tale of great
> heroism and even greater tragedy. Cruel it is that fate conspires to bring
> down even the proudest of Nords. Let this saga serve as a warning that the
> strength of even the greatest men fail.
>
> It is said that during the reign of the Mad King there was born a true son of
> Kyne whose honor and spear-arm were unquestioned throughout the nine holds,
> his name being Thødrek of the clan Troll-Song. Few winters did he walk our
> world, but rich they were in journey and fortune!

Here the narrator goes into various exploits and sexual conquests of Thødrek. I
have set them aside for later translation, but it is the end that concerns my
thesis:

> I ovipva hol vid finnarva gundir dwargisen hallar. Alffafne geilvi fram all
> staadar. Ogandrand vind beirva ill wil vid mannar thæt wilja ræf hød pfundar.
> Ak Thødrek gandvir forevid o uve vigvir uvra frykte. I uvra stig finnvir uve
> hildifjøl føl alfar…

{:.text-italic}

Translation:

> Deep in the hole without sight did the warrior find halls of dwarf-iron. The
> sounds of elf whispers called from everywhere. The wind that did not move held
> an ill will to those that wished to enter. Still did Thødrek go forward,
> fighting his fear. Upon his path did he come across a warhost of pale elves…

This was followed by brutal descriptions of killing falmer, which I shall not
repeat here for the sake of decency.

> Ak uvra thrud sig valvi frodnt, for uvra stig beirvir uvre vid afn opp
> himmelvip hødva snærsk saad oppva fjell. I thæt staad vipvir bjartva nord
> følva alfar beitvi jora ond gud:
>
> “Ok, thrud Srib!” gallvi jo! “Vardva irje, for nie valvi knurbunt!”
>
> Balt botvir Sribva beit. Vidva afnstein gandvir grau draugalf fram ovipsk
> gard. Alfs kodra beirvir starnar o bathmildar, o uve beitvir ondudyr gunja
> uvre. Ak Thødrek valvi størn! Vem i thed staad vorar so størn vigna ondudyr
> fram Udyrgard? Ovem bætar ek!

{:.text-italic}

Translation:

> But his glorious victory was not to last, for his path did lead him to a
> temple that had sky-sight upon the snowy shore with the mountain. In that
> place did the Nord see the pale elves chanting to their evil god:
>
> “Oh, Great Xrib!” Called they! “Protect us, for we are but weaklings!”
>
> Soon were their calls answered. To the temple-stone traveled a grey ghost-elf
> from lands unseen. The elf’s cloak had stars and tree-rivers, and he called
> forth demons aid him. But still was Thødrek stalwart! Who here would be so
> brave as to face demons from the world of monsters? No man, I wager!

Here, there is more less-than-tasteful violence, leading to a one on one fight
with the apparition, where he was defeated, but not yet killed.

> Srib børsvir ohofskva gundir o malvir um dagar herr uve byldvir luker thæt uve
> ej wiljat vem vipa. Uve talvir um thrudva Ondudyrjarlar o jore halde. O sid
> malvir um heimsk mannar thæt gandvi vidva luker nak. Nak bryl tal snillvir
> Srib fryktesk Thødrek Grahlhjold o hødva nar leggvir uve høre thæt hjoldar um
> horsk mannar thæt ej veta sik vor heimsk gandra iva luker.

{:.text-italic}

Translation:

> Xrib bound the pitiful warrior and spoke of days when he built doors for no
> man to see. He spoke of great demon-jarls and their holds. He spoke of fools
> that followed. After much talk did the elf slay poor Thødrek Troll-Song, and
> upon his corpse did he place linens that sing of wise men who know not that
> they are fools to enter the doors.

I leave you, my colleagues, to ponder the implications of this verse.
