---
series: Fragment of the Gorieada
part: 1
title: Mother’s Shame
reddit: 2hoz93
author: Alveryn
date: 2014-09-28T12:46:35Z
---

> \[Translator’s Note: The loose pages that would come to comprise the
> “Fragments of the Gorieada” were found hidden beneath floorboards in
> Gottlesfont Priory, northeast of Skingrad city, in the days of the Longhouse
> Emperors, and were only recently acquired by the Imperial Geographical Society
> for translation from it’s old Nedic language, a feat that has taken
> considerable time and effort, and is still ongoing. They seem to be a
> heretical history of the life of little-known Emperor Gorieus, who ruled
> Cyrodiil in the early First Era.\]

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

…for, knowing the risk her Glory-crowned babe bore unto her, and fearing the
same fate as her mother and the Blessed Paravant, the One-Horned Empress denied
herself affection, and denied her Empire a successor, throughout most of her
turbulent yet successful reign. For the first time since the Covenant, the
Sacred Bloodline was reduced to a single Heiress, the minotaur having forgotten
the wisdoms of Morihaus and diluted their Esha-blood to little more than an
inuring blessing. Finally, as the illustrious queen began to feel her age
creeping into her bones, she relented to the pleadings of her High Prelate and
her people, and took a consort (a very handsome and, some say, scandalously
young Colovian prince). Soon enough, she was blessed (and, she silently prayed,
not cursed) with a flowering seed in her belly. The conception was celebrated
across the land, uniting both Nibenese and Colovian in cheer under the careful
eye of the somber priests charged with organizing the celebrations, though the
Empress herself increasingly felt only dread.

As her term reached it’s end, Ami-El took to her personal chambers in the White
Tower, where she would glower at the Ruby of Kings, as yet unwilling to yield
herself to it’s sanguine glow, attended by a small flock of nervous young ladies
and a few priests to read aloud prayers of Proper-Life and the Inflexible
Doctrines. When her labors came, she prayed fervently to the Paravant to see her
through, and she believed throughout the entire affair that, though it was the
most painful, horrible experience she had ever endured, the Slave-Queen was
lending her Divine aid. But when the midwife gasped sharply as the babe emerged,
Ami-El knew the truth. Each lady in attendance was shocked, though each tried
desperately to hide it, save the Empress herself, who began to cry gentle tears
when the child was placed in her arms. Not only was it a boy, so much less fit
for the Ruby Throne; but her boy was born the first Emperor without the blessed
horns of Morihaus-Breath-of-Kyne. Her own unwillingness to fulfill her destiny
had, she was certain, unwittingly greatly changed the destiny of her prince, and
it was a curse from Blessed Alessia herself. This dreadful suspicion would haunt
the last Glory-Crowned Empress to the very end of her days…
