---
series: Birth of the Dragon Cult
part: 1
title: Hark! A Prophet from the East!
reddit: 2i16am
author: bnmbnm0
date: 2014-10-01T21:51:56Z
---

Wise old Heimdar sat atop the tallest seeinghouse of Atmora, studying the
clearest mirror for signs of Alduin and his many tongue-brothers. But he grew
bored and turned to his apprentice scryers, and said, “Do you children know of
the Last First War, which raged endlessly, and consumed many Nirns, and is still
raging in the south, and may very well consume us? Have you heard tales of
Kyne’s manbirth, and of the First men, of which I am? Know you of the sundering,
and of the Serpent, and the creation of the vile Alduin, by the vile Ald?” The
apprentices had heard these tales, for they were Atmoran, but they were bored
and had not been told this story by one who was there, and so they asked Heimdar
to tell this tale, and Heimdar started.

“In the beginning the gods met to make Nirn, and with Nirn make Mundus, and the
mighty Shor convinced the gods to make this place as a King maker. But Ald was
angered by this, and Ald wanted to forever live, and so the war was waged, and
tears came.

And Shor marched on the now Middle world, and Ald met him, and the Old Ones were
at Ald’s side. And the Wandering Ones stood proud, clad in Words, at the heels
of Shor. And I was stationed with Kyne, atop the Throat, to better see all, to
pray that the Sun would not be made. And the battle raged for all time. And
blood pooled and evaporated, and the red of the blood became dirt, and the water
of the blood became the Middle Sea, the Vault between Nirn and Oblivion, the
thickest, blackest clouds, and the Whales ran dry, for we had used so much
liquid silly to die quieter. And Shor took the form of a great Serpent, and Ald
became a great Phoenix. And the Bull Angels lead by Morihaus clashed with the
Great Eagles. And Stuhn and Tsun fought Trinimac and they spun like dancers, two
Downs and an Up, to make a Tie, and their swords were Weak, and they fused, and
the three traded places without moving or striking.

But the Roc won, and Shor was grounded, and I could see his tongue flicker from
his mouth, and it was an other serpent, for Shor kept his hunger in this second
snake, for Shor is the Missing One, and when things go missing things rush to
fill the newly made space, and so Shor’s hunger was mighty, And that snake held
yet more snakes in it’s mouth, and the hunger descended into the impossible
vacuum of Shor’s soul. And Shor was brought before the Moot, and Kyne breathed
upon us, and we were breathed secondly, and we were remade, and we felt her
might in out throats, and she yelled telling us to run, to go north. And we ran,
and I saw two heads fly into the sky, and one was the head of Shor, and the
other was the Serpent, Shor and Shor, the Moons, and I saw the Serpent’s head,
and I saw the Snake Tongue, and it’s many tonguelings fall out of the Serpent’s
mouth, and as we ran Kyne began to cry, and the memory of the dead fell at once,
and as we ran we had a wave at our heel, and we saw the Heart fall, into a new
sea, and Nirn shook, and suddenly Time marched, and we grew skin, and I looked
back and saw the vanguard captured, my brothers, the slaves of the new made
Elves, and we reached the cliffs called Atmora, and we climbed them, and the sea
filled the world, and Atmora became a continent, and as we looked back we saw
the Alduin raising from the water, The Hunger of Shor, there to devour Nirn, and
at Alduin’s rear rose the Sea Serpents, to aid in our destruction, and across
the sea flew the Censers of Time, those foul time Eagles, and they eat all they
please, and they war with the Trees for they are cast from the Everpast, and I
saw the Moot, half frozen in death. And this is how we came to Atmora, to fight
the Serpents and the Eagles, to exist.”

And the apprentices sat, all thinking different things, and one young man, beard
only three feet long, began to speak but only managed to inhale when a fleck of
dust flew gently landed upon the mirror, and they all stopped in there tracks,
and no one breathed, and the young man quickly closed his mouth for fear of
vomiting. And Heimdar rose and brought his eye mere inches from the glass, and
he saw a strange vessel in the sea, sailing from the east, and around it the
waters darkened, the ship was guiding a Serpent. Heimdar quickly ran to the
window, he shouted, and his Thu’um speed throughout the shores of Atmora, and
fires were lit and drums sounded, fleets were fielded, and whales herded south,
and Heimdar shouted directions to the men of Atmora. And a great whale fleet
floated over the strange ship and pulled it from the water to the shore.
Ysgriil, champion of antagonism lead the vanguard to get the beast to rear up
high, and they shouted into the water, and they threw harpoons into the sea, and
they threw bolts of lighting into the deep and up from the depths rose the vile
serpent, a lesser tongue, and Heimdar spoke its name, the fifty thousand and
second tongue of Alduin, and Ysgriil retreated from the vacuous being, which as
all serpents do, lives in a bubble of deletion, unmaking all it nears, and the
High Priest Konahrik sailed forth, with a shout the priest thrust the staff
called Orkey towards the beast, and he sung a verse of creation, and he gave a
year of Atmora’s age to the beast, and the beast ceased to exist.

Heimdar, Ysgriil, and Konahrik all ran to the strange ship, and boarded the
vessel, and on the deck sat a naked man, his skin was covered in orange fur with
black stripes, and he was a tiger. The Atmorans began to question the beastman
who sat silently, finally after the three grew annoyed and became quiet the
tiger spoke saying, “Rejoice Ald-men, for I come bearing a gift from should be.
My king, the Tosh Raka, offers peace to you. The son comes to deliver the father
to the world. Tell me, what troubles you so much young men?” and the men stood
silent, and The Prophet spoke saying, “In my land we have brothers called
dragons, and I have come to deliver them unto you, for they will eat your
Serpents, and they will eat your Eagles, and they will be full, and will trouble
you little, and no longer will your war wage, and the Last First war will end at
last. I say to you man, fight the Serpents and the Eagles, make time for the
foretold, make way for the Queen to speak the name of your savior, and to steal
all that is needed to create your savior, and fight the Serpents and Eagles that
the Dance may deliver you, that all will say the first last first men fought to
end the eating, and though they were all killed they gave us Nu-men room to
grow. Go now you three and get the attention of the Bull and the Singular one,
for I have great schemes to make that will kill gods and bring relief to the
Serpent killers.” And the three left, and the Bull and the Shorsoul came to the
tiger, and two great plans were created, and to the bull was given the secret of
the name of the savior, and how to find the Queen, and that moment was when
R’Akatosh’s name was first spoken, and was when the Dragon Cult was born. And
the promise was kept in the hearts of men, and they worshiped the upcoming
Dragon, and they called out, misremembering the name of the Tiger King, “Praise
be to Akatusk, the coming horde, to deliver us into a time of peace.”
