---
title: Songs of the Return
subtitle: Volumes 38 & 39
reddit: 2i340g
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-10-02T12:58:51Z
---

## Songs of the Return, Volume 38: The Nigh Lost Tale of the Brahtmiir

Many of the tales of the men and women who were the mighty Five Hundred
Companions have been nearly lost due to time and forgetfulness. But some tales
were never meant to be lost, and we sing them now until our Forefathers can hear
are voices in Sovngarde.

One of these tales tell the story of the famed and distant crew of the
Brahtmiir, who were legendary in their skills of the clever craft. When the
Companions decided to settle the land, the Brahtmiir were so inseparable that
they boarded their ship and sailed away from the snowy grounds for adventure and
glory nearly forgetting to say farewell.

With the blessings of Kyne upon their backs and the teachings of Jhunal in their
arms the Brahtmiir leaped across the waters to the southern east, with such
warriors and mages of courage onboard such as Captain Hjaal (whose creations of
runes were unrivaled), Boat-Thane Kit the Whisper (who spoke like spring and
cursed like winter) and his best friend Hun (whose fists cracked rock), who’s
War-Wife was Aria the Fire Catcher. With them were two dozen more Companions
(notable ones being the Driftsman and Guri Nail-Face), who sought to seek new
lands for conquest.

The Brahtmiir, however, became so entrenched with their wanderings that they
forgot to play tribute to the gods, and so Mother Kyne breathed their boat into
a storm so violent that the sound of thunder cracked the air and the cold froze
the wind mid-passing. Young Yoki and Clever-Man Grunfar the Solaced lost their
lives in nature’s fury, and it was in much weeping and limping that the
Brahtmiir landed on a isle in the sea that seem to shift and rearrange itself in
their memories.

It was here that the crew of the Brahtmiir discovered even newer horrors, as
they were attacked by tribes of savage bat-men who looked like mer, and whose
voices rivaled their own skills at the clever craft in both elegance and power.
For five days and nights the Companions and the wicked beastmen combated with
talk, steel, and clever craft until the island began bleeding rivers of flowing
ichor.

When both sides realized that neither could out best the other with simple
attacks, they resulted to using the most powerful of magicks. The bat-men
summoned a blasphemous entity (whose name we shall not record here for fear of
evoking him) who killed ten of the Atmorans instantly by simply Speaking. With
bloody hearts and pained mouths the Clever Men of the Brahtmiir cried out to
Jhunal, who wept at his apprentices suffering. The Rune God ran to the domain of
Kyne, who he begged of to save the Brahtmiir. The Mother of Tears wept as Jhunal
wept, and through great power summoned the ghost of valiant Shor, whose battle
with the bat god in the aether allowed the Brahtmiir to escape the island on
crippled planks, eventually returning to the home they had gleefully abandoned
with much grief uncontained.

## Songs of the Return, Volume 39: The Final Tale of the Brahtmiir

The wailing of the crew of the Brahtmiir alerted their brethren on the mainland
during the starry night, and with much haste they were pulled out of the sea and
set upon the frozen land. Despite the pleas of the warriors of Windhelm the crew
of the Brahtmiir refused to tell them their sad story, and merely set their
tearful hearts west, searching for a place where they could drown their sorrows
in the blood of enemies. Ysgramor, who in his great wisdom, knew what was
troubling them and left them pass, knowing that he would never see another of
their ilk again in recent memory.

Carrying their ship on their back, Captain Hjaal led his crew through rocky
valleys and frozen forests, and still with them was the Driftsman and Guri
Nail-Face, who came despite wanting to stay in Windhelm but loved their friends
to no ending. Together the two crews moved forwards, using the clever craft to
light their way in shadow, for which they had come to fear after their battles
with the bat-men of the eastern seas. With fury fueled by sadness they struck
out against all settlements of mer that they came across, but nothing ended
their sorrow or pain and so they pressed onwards leaving a bloody trail behind
and before them.

It wasn’t until the twentieth day after they had first embarked that they
entered a region of muck and frost populated by mer led by Mage-Lord Rolthryn
the Ethereal, who by legend was the child of one the spirit women that dwelled
between worlds. And despite the crew’s knowledge of the Clever Craft, they could
not defeat the elves, who were able to become as ghosts because of their lord’s
heritage. With much regret the Brahtmiir fled to the southern mountains that
gazed down upon the marsh with frosty tears, and rested on their peaks. And as
his comrades slept, the goddess Kyne sent a bird of purest snow down from the
clouds to rest on his shoulder, and Hjaal knew that this was a sign of how to
defeat Rolthryn the Ethereal. Awakening the others, he drew runes of snow on
their skin and forged weapons of frost in the name of Kyne and Jhunal for days
on end, and it wasn’t until they were finished that they walked down the
mountains towards the city of the elves, using their craft to make the very laws
of nature heed their grieving will.

And as the crew of the Brahtmiir came into the sights of the mer that presided
in the city, their enemies cried out in fright for they thought the men were
gods in disguise because of their garb and ran off to their Mage-Lord to learn
how to confront them. And Rolthryn the Ethereal listened to what his warriors
said, and mustered a force of mer thrice greater than the heads of the Brahtmiir
and glided out to meet them. As the wretched elf passed the trees wilted and the
grass died in his wake, and his army transformed into shades of the lightest
blue unable to be touched.

Hjaal signaled to the others to remain where they were, and as Rolthryn
approached he readied the incantations he spent so much time in preparing and
knew that once it was completed he would no longer be able to exist in this
realm. For the captain, a great Clever Man, knew that in order to defeat a
spirit one must first sacrifice a spirit. With his own being he used his own
soul to enchant his axe, and with a war cry that shook the trees he struck at
Rolthryn, who attempted to become like spirit to avoid the blade. But a soul can
hurt another soul, and the axe passed through the mer’s neck and his head flew
into the horizon, and Kyne turned it into a massive stone in the forest.

With the defeat of their leader, the mer that remained became touchable by flesh
and the crew of the Brahtmiir descended upon them in their fury as Hjaal fell
into the snow as dead. The soil became mud from the blood that poured into it,
and when the elves had been defeated they laid siege to their city and made it
crumble to the ground. And from that point on, they knew that they had found the
place where they would stay in the new land, and they buried Hjaal beneath the
city that they built the Brahtmiir into, and they named the region Hjaalmarch in
his honor. No other mer troubled them for the rest of their days.
