---
series: "A Pocket Guide to Skyrim and Its Environs: Hjaalmarch, Third Edition"
part: 4
title: The Hamlet of the Gelid Mire
subtitle: Morthal
reddit: 2i3543
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-10-02T13:12:07Z
---

Albeit a recently established settlement to the landscape of Hjaalmarch, this
short section on Morthal has been included to provide a better understanding of
its peculiar origin as well as keeping this guide up to date.[^1]

The village of Morthal was founded early in Third Era in the year 429 and is
located east of Snowhawk in the more wet and muddy part of Hjaalmarch. A small
settlement built mainly of wood, it actually rests on the southern edge of a
marsh and is somewhat built on it, with stone foundation keep it from sinking
into the fetid waters. The citizens here are hostile – even for Nords[^2] – and
are not fond of outsiders, and will usually drive them away before hearing the
potential visitors out first. It especially hates the capital of Hjaalmarch,
Snowhawk, and refuses to trade with it despite their close proximity with each
other.

Morthal (named after the great hero Morihaus, the demigod son of Kyne) was
created when the citizens of Snowhawk underwent a religious schism[^3] in 427. A
sect that primarily worshiped Kyne exiled themselves after disagreeing with
Jhunal’s worshippers over which god should be primarily revered in the city.
They eventually traveled to the wilderness, where they isolated themselves from
the rest of the Nord population. Many of the other Hold’s Jarls (including the
High King himself) view Morthal as a mere extension of Snowhawk, and feel that
its villagers are just disillusioned. However, for all sakes and purposes, the
town is clearly independent from the rest of Skyrim.

> Annotation 3.
>
> **Morthal’s Declaration of Independence**
>
> **Author:** Citizenry of Morthal
>
> No longer can we shelter ourselves with our brethren in Snowhawk! They have
> forsaken Kyne, War-Wife of Shor, in favor of Jhunal the Outcast. Yes, we must
> admit that it Jhunal’s Clever Men that originally founded the city. But it was
> Kyne who armed our ancestors, and it is she who deserves our respect. But the
> others in the city scoff at our ideals, saying that this was a place of magic
> before all else. And so shall we leave! We will forge a new path in the
> wilderness, and we will worship Kyne in peace.

Because of its nonexistent trade routes with the rest of Skyrim, the citizens of
Morthal are left to fend for themselves. They are expert hunters and fishermen,
and are strong practicians of herbalism. Although they abandoned much of the
arcane practices of the mages of Snowhawk, they have retained their knowledge of
animal magic and enchant their equipment with unique nature-oriented spells[^4]
and still use nature totems for a variety of rituals[^5]. Most of the villagers
prefer not to fight unless for food or to protect themselves, and are actually
rather peaceful despite their interactions with others.

> Annotation 4.
>
> **An Inscription Left On A Morthal Blade**
>
> **Author:** Unknown
>
> Let thy steel fly as fast as an eagle, be as sturdy as a charging bear, and be
> as strong as a mammoth when I use it against my enemies…

Despite its animosity with the other Nords, Morthal has a great love for Skyrim
and will protect it at all costs. When Bandits encroach on their territory, the
warriors of the hamlet will immediately set out and drive them away[^6]. They
have killed many bounties, but have never collected on them. To some Nords, they
are honorable heroes. To others, despicable savages.

High King Torbarik wishes to speak with the settlement of Morthal in order to
work out some sort of agreement with its citizens and have it successfully
incorporated back into Skyrim without bloodshed. We in the Imperial City can
only hope he is successful.[^7]

Now, let us turn the page to the most mysterious settlement in Hjaalmarch. One
that has been abandoned for centuries, Labryinthian.

[^1]: Pocket guides and ‘up to date’ is a… funny notion to think about.

[^2]: Remove this before all the Nords in Tamriel start a riot. If they’re smart
enough for such a thing, that is.

[^3]: (footnote missing from original)

[^4]: (footnote missing from original)

[^5]: Mostly magicks that allow one to see prey before they get to close, or
take on the guise of a particular animal to lure one for a kill.

[^6]: Impressive.

[^7]: Cut that out. It makes us sound pompous as well as making us look like
we’re taking a side in this matter. We need to keep a neutral outlook right now.
