---
series: Peryite Arcana
part: 5
title: Interrogation of an Afflicted
reddit: 2i37hq
author: Al-Hatoor
date: 2014-10-02T13:39:31Z
---

\[Attachment: This document was in the possession of the Imperial Geographic
Society, and seems to have been used to provide a bit more information about
Peryite, one of the more enigmatic Daedric Princes.\]

**Q:** Now then, we can begin. You are a worshipper of Peryite, are you not?
Could you please state in what way and form?

**A:** Yes, I am one of the many vassals of the Blighted Lord. (Cough). I am an
Afflicted, as you can so tell. (Coughs some more).

**Q:** Ah yes, the Afflicted. You’re order is one of the most secretive of the
Daedric Cults, I’ve been told.

**A:** Are we? We have not noticed that, but I am sure we probably have as well.
(Cough). Perhaps we are less known because the other cults are more renowned?
The Blighted Lord reserves the eternal balance, as always.

**Q:** Eternal Balance? What is this you speak of?

**A:** Ah, you have been blind despite being able to see. (Cough). The Blighted
Lord always partakes in both plates; he never eats off just one. I myself was
suffering from a terrible malady when I was a lad, that would kill me before I
reached manhood. (Cough). Peryite blessed me to become one of his Afflicted,
allowing me to continue living. But, I suffer every second from external and
internal pain. So is the price (hacks up something green and spits it on the
floor, then scratches the blisters on his arms) of serving the Blighted Lord.

**Q:** He both heals you and tortures you at the same time? That is sadistic.

**A:** The Taskmaster does not care for such things, not really. He is the
Conjurer of Contagions and the Caretaker of Cures; from his maw death and life
spreads forth like mist, and intertwine within your body. With each stroke of
his wings his influence spreads further. (Raises his mug and drinks some water.)

**Q:** With the mention of wings, can you tell me why the Taskmaster chooses on
the form of a dragon? I’ve heard tales that he does it to mock Akatosh.

**A:** Peryite is not a true dragon, but at the same time he is. The Dragon is
an important (cough) symbol; the true reason why he takes on that form is for
the wise to know.

**Q:** Ah, that is probably the clearest answer I will receive, is it? Now, can
you tell me why Peryite is considered the weakest of the princes?

**A:** Perhaps he is the weakest because he chooses to be the weakest? The
bottom of the totem pole supports the rest; no other princes filled the niche
did they? No, they didn’t. But the Blighted Lord did. I have nothing else to say
to you.

**Q:** Fine then. The guards will show you the way out.
