---
series: Saga of the Dragon War
part: 2
title: Of the First Tongues
reddit: 2i3tl2
author: EFG567
date: 2014-10-02T17:03:32Z
about: |
  Lots of myth-echoes in this part. I tried to emulate Kirkbride’s style in the
  Aldudaggas and Five Hundred Companions, hope I succeeded or at least did well
  enough.
---

In those days the Dragons and their Priests harried us to near defeat, and their
strength overwhelmed us, and their Voices spoke our doom. And we hid in the
Hjaalmarch tattered and near destruction, and Kyne wept as she had not since
Shor’s heart was cut out and he was slain by Merish trickery. And in the rain
and the lightnings not even the joy-snow of the sky whales could lighten our
hearts; for against the power of the Dov, and the Priests, and greatest of all
AL-DU-IN, there seemed no victory.

And lo! Amidst our camp one of the Dovah descended, white as Alduin is black,
and asked to speak to our clever-men and elders. And we were a-feared of him,
and drew bows and shivered our spears, but he spake to us:

“Fear me not! For I am come from KAAN, war-widow of SHOOR whose heart is
Missing, and I bring tidings of new hope. For much she weeps over you, and your
dream of Liberty which dies in its cradle, and so she has commanded me to give
you the Voice of the Dovah. For though you have the power of the Voice the Dovah
keep the knowledge of it from you (save for their priests) for if you had it you
would overthrow them.”

Then we said, “What is your name, Dovah? And how may we know to trust you?”

And he said: “I am PAARTHURNAX secondborn son of BORMAHU AKA-TUSK, and you may
know that you may trust me because were I your foe all of you here would be
already walking the whale’s-way to Shor’s hall.”

And Vargrim, a hothead clever-man who came from Snowhawk, said to PAARTHURNAX,
“Let us train already in the Voice, for there is no time to lose!”

And PAATHURNAX said: “First I must discern who I may teach. Let your greatest
warriors come before me and drink of my Voice. Those who live shall be fit for
my teaching.”

And we came before PAARTHURNAX, our greatest warriors, one-thousand-and-eight in
all (for this was a decided number). There was Haldor of the Sixteenfold Shield,
whose bulwark had held back the lightnings Shouted by NAKHRIIN of the whaleskin
cloak; and Ulfbjorn the Stormfang Axe who had slain one hundred and forty four
of the dwarves who live in Dunkreath (and this was a thing unheard of, for the
Deep Folk are crafty and use armour that is like a living skin of metal, and
pikes that shoot killing sound, and half-living metal men to fight when they
feel cowardly); and Svalja the clever-woman who had learned, it is said, from
the Dov FEYKROMIIN in his crooked house; and Hjalmar who would turn into an
eagle-Man at the full moons; and Jorn who fought bare-handed, and whose blow had
broken the face of HEVNORAAK so that from then on it was never seen again; and
many many others.

And PAARTHURNAX Shouted Words those who heard them (and lived) did not recall.
And when he had Shouted nine-hundred-and-ninety-nine lay dead, and nine alone
stood before him (for this too was a decided number). And these nine Tongues are
spoken of below.

There was Hakon, who was called One-Eye (for his eye had been lost in a battle
at Shearpoint, when KROSIS had struck him with an arrow-shot) and he bore
Wuuthrad the Axe forged by Ysgramor to slay elves, for he was Harbinger in the
line of Ysgramor (and of Wuuthrad it is said that it will be shattered three
times ere a hand truly worthy of it touches it again, and the first shattering
is spoken of in this saga). Boisterous and glad he was on the eve of war, but
after battle sorrow would quench the fire in his heart, and he would weep. And
he wore a cloak of foxhide at all times.

There was Felldir, old and grey-bearded, and far-sighted, and skilled in the
clever craft. A greatsword he wielded, and on his shoulder perched often an owl
from whose eyes he could see, and knew many knowledges which it whispered in his
ear while he slept, so that his skill in clever craft was second only to the
Glorious of Bromjunaar.

There were Gormlaith and Valkrys, twin-sister shield-maidens with gold hair and
grey eyes, who looked the same save for the war-paint they wore on their faces.
Gormlaith was first-born and was glad in battle, and sang as she slew, and
laughed at her foes in fierce joy as she hewed them. On account of her beauty
many sought to woo her, but she suffered no suitor save one who could best her
in battle; and of those there were very few in all Tamriel, such that they could
be counted on the fingers of one hand. Her sword was made of the bones of
snow-whales, and so was her shield. Valkrys was second from her mother’s womb,
and wielded a greatsword of ever-ice from the Utternorth, beyond even the Elder
Wood, and wore the hide of the Great Bear of Pinemoon, which had claws of iron
and eyes of fire, as cloak. And she was not like Gormlaith, for when Gormlaith
was glad she was without feeling as she fought with cold-hearted strategy, and
often she took ransom of her foemen.

There was Ornar the Storm-Cloak who could run as fast as the hawk flies, and he
had two weapons. First was Lightning, and it was a spear as swift as the wind
and which swung in mid-air to hunt his froes, and when it struck it would fly
back to his hand so he could throw it again. And second was Thunder, a warhammer
the weight of a mountain which lesser men could not lift but he held it in one
hand, and when he swung it whole ranks of the foe would be destroyed and hurled
back. And he was called Storm-Cloak because his cloak was woven from the
storm-clouds, and in battle brought them with it to aid him. And when you looked
in his eyes you would only ever see endless storms.

There was Helja who was ever-beautiful as a young maiden, and fought with twin
swords made of silver. And it was said that she could turn into a moth, and thus
spy on her foes, and she won many kings and chieftains over to our cause with
her beauty and her sweet songs and the comfort of her thighs.

And there was Ulrika who rode in a chariot pulled by wolves, and was mother of
many sons and daughters who gladly followed her to war, and when they fought
together with her they both would fight harder and do many worthy deeds, the
children so their mother would praise them, the mother to protect her children
(for what love is greater than that between mother and child?).

And there was Valdar who wore snakeskin leather tinted black as midnight and had
a sword made from the fang of a sea-snake of the far southern waters, and he was
a thief and slew cunningly without honour, but we permitted him because he was
the greatest of his kind, and he fought for our freedom.

And last of all there was Sigvrid, and it was said that he was first of all our
warriors to have slain one of the Dov, and he wore its bones as armour and
weapons, and its scales as a cloak, to boast of his victory. For Sigfrid was a
boastful and arrogant man, and it is said that of the Dovah he slew he drank its
blood and gained power close to that of a King – but not wholly that of a King,
for he had drank the blood while it was dead and not still living, and from the
throat and not the heart.

This is the count of the First Tongues. May they glory in Sovngarde till all
worlds have passed away!
