---
series: Thalmor Reports
part: 3
title: Thalmor Report on the Dragonborn, Part III
reddit: 2j2d6n
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-10-12T22:53:12Z
about: |
  Here is part three of the series, again any suggestions you would like to make
  or if mistakes needed to be pointed out just let me know. Thanks for your
  feedback and continued reading.
---

First Emissary Elenwen,

I am aware of your growing impatience pertaining to the situation with the
Dragonborn. This turn of events was beyond our predictions. I assure you thought
that the truce that was orchestrated will not last long, the divide between the
Imperial Legion and Ulfric’s Stormcloaks runs too deep to be mended by a
temporary truce. We all believe that you did the best you could in the
negotiations given the circumstances, the appearance of the remaining Blades and
the sway of the Greybeards put the negotiations in Dragonborn’s favor. Now that
we have the names and faces of those remaining Blades we will continue to hunt
for their hideout and finally bring them to justice.

Know that the civil war will continue now that the Dragonborn has returned. Yes,
recent information reported to me is that the Dragonborn has indeed returned
after he was seen leaving Dragonsreach in Whiterun on the back of a large red
dragon. Our sources seem to agree the truce was orchestrated merely to secure
Whiterun from Stormcloak interference while they lured a dragon to the city for
a purpose I will discuss later. We have reason to believe now that the
Dragonborn set all of these events in motion after he fought Alduin on the
Throat of the World mere days ago. Alduin is known as the World Eater in Skyrim,
Nordic myth depicts him as a malevolent force who “eats” the world periodically
and whose appearance to the Nords, heralds the end of time. This Alduin appears
to be the force who was behind the return of the dragons, scouts report seeing a
large black dragon literally resurrecting dead and buried dragons.

However it appears that due to the machinations of the Dragonborn, Alduin is no
more. While our information is at best incomplete we are trying to piece
together what happened after the Dragonborn released the captured dragon and
flew away with it to parts unknown. Somehow, as far fetched as it sounds the
Dragonborn was seeking a literal portal to Sovngarde, apparently it where Nords
tell themselves they go after they die. All that is known to us is that the
Dragonborn reappeared in Skyrim. Some of our informants report seeing a large
number of dragons circling the Throat of the World a few days ago. If this is
related to the reappearance of the Dragonborn, it is unknown to us at this time.
If I may make a personal observation I think that all this information suggests
that the Dragonborn has killed Alduin. We do not know if this is a permanent
outcome or how the deed transpired. What we do know for certain is that the
Dragonborn has been seen abroad in Skyrim again, and is being hailed as a hero
by everyone in the province. I assure you First Emissary that we will strike
down this last hope of Men and in doing so, end the biggest threat to our plans
in Skyrim and abroad. I personally assure you of our success.

—Erraille 3rd Emissary

P.S.

I also must thank you once again on my promotion, First Emissary. I will
continue the good work Rulindil started.
