---
title: "Interview: Ascension"
reddit: 2jex86
author: Kopaka99559
date: 2014-10-16T13:08:35Z
---

Date: Middas, Last Seed 23, 1E701

Subject: Avunes Adashari

Welcome, Avunes. Please, take a seat.

“Thank you, sir.”

Now then, let’s get down to business. You claim that you had followed Almsivi, Azura bless them, down into the depths of the Mountain. What possessed you to do so?

“Well, sir, my brother and I, we were concerned as no one has seen our Lord Nerevar in weeks. Darnen, he kept going on about how he thinks one of them did it, so I tried to talk to them, but I couldn’t muster the nerve, so I just followed them.”

I see. And where did they lead you?

“They went back down into the Dwemer city; I thought this was odd as no one’s been down there since the war. They just kept going deeper and deeper, until they stopped in this massive forge-like room.”

And what did they do?

“Well, I saw them talking to each other for a while, and Lord Vivec kept shaking his head, but then Lady Ayem, she pulled out these strange implements, and handed them to the other two. But then, Lord Seht started walking towards the doorway where I was hiding, so I turned and ran back to the surface.”

Now, this is very important. Tell me what happened next.

“I don’t rightly know, myself, sir. Suddenly, I heard this massive crack, as if of lightning or something, so I ran faster. When I got back into the light, I thought I had covered myself in dwarven soot or something. I didn’t realize, then, what had really happened…”

And what do you think happened?

“I don’t know for sure, but Something happened in those tunnels. Something vile. Something so terrible that Azura, herself, cursed us….”

Well, I thank you for this entertaining story, Avunes. Of course, none of it happened.

“Sir? What are you d…”

Thank you for your honesty.

Barenth! Get in here and clean up this mess. Throw him in one of the mines, the kwama will dispose of him.

The Tribunal Protects.
