---
series: Thalmor Reports
part: 6
title: Thalmor Report on the Dawnguard
reddit: 2jg3d2
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-10-16T19:36:35Z
about: |
  Here’s the follow-up on the Dawnguard DLC, I should have a comprehensive
  report on the events here soon. As always any mistakes or suggestions are
  welcomed to be pointed out.
---

Addressing All Thalmor Agents within Skyrim

We have been encountering a reactionary group in the province that is calling
themselves the Dawnguard. They appear to be attempting to stem these vampire
attacks which have grown in number and ferocity as of late. It’s common
knowledge that they make camp in the old fort outside of Riften. This order,
however is not original. It is known that during the Second Era this group was
formed by the Jarl of Riften to protect and monitor his son who had been
infected with vampirism. After this multiple stories of their fate aries,
whatever the case was, the group eventually disbanded. Now it appears that a man
called Isran has resurrected this order. Some of the ranks appear to be
disillusioned Vigilants who have left the order, perceiving it as too soft, it
seems that choice saved their lives. They have been actively publicly
recruiting, though that is sure to catch the attention of these vampires. The
reason the Thalmor have interest in watching them are several. This group sees
itself as protecting Skyrim against these vampires, and have proven to act
outside the bounds of the law when the need arises. They seem adept in
intelligence and counter-intelligence, as well as espionage. Secret
assassinations of known vampires seem to be the key method of disposal. They
also seem to preemptively strike hideouts where a vampire has taken up
residence, showing a great deal of watchfulness on the Dawnguard’s part.
Tracking vampires who are attempting to hide shows that the members of this
order are talented trackers and seem willing to hunt vampires down wherever they
have hidden. While these talents are not turned against the Dominion here in the
province, we cannot become complacent.

A new, curious employment of this order is their use of a crossbow-like weapon.
It appears to be made out of wood and steel and launches bolts smaller than the
size of a regular arrow. Where they achieved such inspiration can be speculated
upon but I suspect a Dwemer origin. If it possible for any agent to get their
hands on one of these weapons, bring it to the Embassy with most haste. In short
this is an organization that should be watched closely, they are adept at a
craft that could be troublesome if they turned it against the Dominion rather
than just vampires. Keep watch on their agents, their movements, and who they
have contact with. If the need arises we will target them just as we did the
Blades in the pre-war years.

By my hand and seal,

Elenwen
