---
series: On Lycanthropy
part: 1
title: Introduction
reddit: 2jz37s
author: imacoda
date: 2014-10-22T07:40:33Z
about: |
  Hello, /r/teslore. This is the only time I will start off a post in this
  series with this, so please read this before going any further. **This series
  will be about all of the different werebeasts mentioned in TES so far.** I
  will provide my thoughts and interpretation about all of them. Some
  **information is taken straight from stuff like UESP and others are completely
  made up. I will be presenting both things as fact** and it’s up to you, as the
  reader, to make your own interpretations. If you like what I said, then go
  ahead and adopt it. If not, don’t. I want all of the readers to have changed
  their headcanon by the end of each post, however, I don’t want a single
  reader’s headcanon to be identical to mine. Also, if you disagree with
  something I said, feel free to comment on it. I want my headcanon to change
  too!

  If you know nothing about Lycanthropy whatsoever, you may want to start in the
  [UESP page for lycanthropy][0]. However if you have even a little knowledge of
  lycanthropy, you should do just fine. I will be mentioning most of the stuff
  mentioned on the UESP page at some point during the series.

  [0]: http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Lycanthropy
---

## What is Lycanthropy?

Lycanthropy is a condition that causes the people of Nirn to transform into a
beast. The word “Lycanthropy” or “Lycanthrope” originally referred to the most
common and well known lycanthrope, the werewolf. However the meaning of it has
now evolved and refers to anyone that can transform into any beast. These beasts
are always a cross between the humanoid they were originally and another animal.
For example, a werewolf is a bipedal creature that has many characteristics of
both the humanoid and the wolf. Also, note that when I said “Lycanthrope” I am
referring to the man/mer/whatever-beast. So, a lycanthrope refers to someone
that could be both in human or beast form, as long as they have the ability to
change between the two.

**TL;DR: Lycanthrope = someone who has the ability to become a werebeast, such
as a werewolf.**

## Contraction

Lycanthropy was originally created by Hircine, Daedric Lord of the Hunt, as a
blessing to his followers. However, if you come in to close contact with a
werebeast, it is possible it will spread to you. This can happen if you are
attacked by a werebeast and live. Because you were scratched with claws, bitten
by teeth or both, you had a chance to contract the disease. This disease, when
it first starts, can be cured quite simply. Visit any healer and you should be
fine. However, the disease quickly grows in strength and the longer you wait,
the harder it is to cure. Eventually it becomes impossible to cure. Shortly
after that, one becomes a lycanthrope. If you got the disease from a werewolf,
you will always become a werewolf. You will not become a werecrocodile instead.
Same goes for all werebeasts. However that is only the normal way of
contraction. It is also possible to skip the disease part and be turned into a
lycanthrope directly. This is done either though a ritual, sometimes involving
drinking the blood of a werebeast, or as a gift directly from Hircine.
Lycanthropy also has a chance to pass down to your children. If both parents are
lycanthropes, it is very likely the child will become one. If only one is,
there’s definitely a good chance of it happening, but it won’t happen for sure.

As long as one is a lycanthrope, and has the beast blood inside them, it affects
both the body and the soul. The condition persists even after death, and carries
those affected into Hircine’s realm.

**TL;DR: You can become a lycanthrope in several different ways, for different
reasons.**

## The Lycanthrope

After one becomes a lycanthrope, he or she becomes much more beast-like. They
will often become stronger, faster, etc. If the werebeast they become has fur,
they will most likely start growing more hair while in their “normal” form. For
example, werewolves occasionally get hairs growing out of their ears. There is
no sure way to predict how the condition will affect the lycanthrope. When one
first becomes a lycanthrope, they will likely turn into a werebeast in high
stress situations. Their body will react to stress or fight or flight situations
by turning into a beast no matter where they are, the time of day, or whether or
not the person wants to transform. If the lycanthrope has particularly good self
control, this may be less likely. However, lycanthropes (especially new ones)
can transform completely at random with nothing triggering the transformation.

The first several transformations are often difficult or impossible to remember
and difficult or impossible to control. Over time, generally, lycanthropes will
gain more control over their transformations and what happens during them. You
can tell when you are beginning to have control over the transformations when
you are able to stop yourself from transforming randomly and can stop yourself
from transforming in high stress situations. Eventually, many (not all)
lycanthropes can develop complete control over their transformations and have
complete control over what they do when they are a beast. The more control one
has over their transformations, the more like their “normal” form they become.
So, for example, the beast will be able to think and plan better instead of
acting on impulses. However, the werebeasts will always have the traits of the
“normal form” and the reverse is always true except in some extreme cases. So,
if you’re a stupid Nord, you’re gonna also be a stupid werewolf. Becoming a
werewolf won’t change basic traits like that. But the traits do become shared.
Again, I will use a Nord werewolf example. If the nord is above average
strength, the werewolf will be stronger than most other werewolves. But over
time, the nord will become a little more bestial than he was before. Perhaps
he’ll be more impulsive.

Due to the hostile nature of most lycanthropes, lycanthropy is feared in
Tamriel. Lycanthropes are only accepted in small communities, such as a pack of
werewolves hiding out in a cave or within the Dark Brotherhood.

**TL;DR: Lycanthropes are people too!**

## Transformation

For all werebeasts, the transformation process is similar. Lycanthropes will
experience extreme chest pain during the beginning stages of the transformation.
This is because the heart greatly increases in size to accommodate the growth in
body that is soon to come. The heart needs to be able to pump blood into the
bigger body immediately and pumps much faster than before. Because of this, some
people won’t even survive their first transformation. It becomes too much to
bear. After the heart has started growing, the muscles soon follow. These grow
so quickly that if the skin doesn’t grow fast enough, it can permanently cause
damage to the skin, and create stretch marks if it doesn’t actually break the
skin. The bones and skin come right after the muscle. The entire process is
extremely painful. After time, it becomes easier to handle as the lycanthrope
becomes accustomed to the pain. When transforming back, it happens in reverse
order. So, the heart comes last. The transformation back is much less painful.
This is because the beast is much less susceptible to pain than any normal
person. Frequent transformations can put a lot of stress on the body and may
appear to age lycanthropes quicker.

**TL;DR: Transformation is painful as hell**

> Thank you for reading! Below I have a list of all the topics I will be
> covering in the series, as long as this post isn’t taken terribly. If you want
> me to cover one topic soon, let me know and I might decide to do that next. I
> haven’t decided what order I’ll do things in. I appreciate any feedback on
> this. Also it’s late and I’m just about to go to bed. I may edit this post a
> bit in the morning.
>
> - Werewolf
> - Werevulture
> - Wereboar
> - Wereshark
> - Werecrocodile
> - Werelion
> - Werebear
> - Werebat (Just found out these were a thing. So… I don’t know how much
>   information I can present on them. Haven’t played ESO. I could use some help
>   on this one)
> - Hircine (Maybe)
> - The Hunting Grounds (Maybe)

{:tag="aside" .afterword}
