---
series: Thalmor Inquiries
part: 4
title: Elenwen’s Interrogation
reddit: 2lg00e
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-11-06T04:39:49Z
---

The following was recorded on the 4th of Evening Star, 4E 20X as part of the
preliminary investigation into the actions and operations of Elenwen Jororin,
First Emissary of the Thalmor Embassy in Skyrim.

Interrogator— You were appointed to this position soon after the Markarth
Incident in 4E 176 correct?

**Elenwen— Yes, I was appointed by the current Vindicator-General, it was
thought that someone with…through of Ulfric Stormcloak would be beneficial, I
was the one who broke him, quite easily, during his incarceration during the
Great War.**

I— What measures did you put in place to ensure that the Stormcloak rebellion
grew to the scale that it did?

**E— I enacted several operations that were aimed at providing covert aid to the
Stormcloaks so that they were not nipped in the bud. My Justiciars were also
ordered to stamp out Talos worship harshly, as to push more of the populace
towards the radicals.**

I— How is it then that you were unable to prevent the capture of Ulfric and his
execution in Helgan? Had that dragon not arrived when it did the war would have
ended there.

**E— I admit I may have underestimated the abilities of the Imperial spies,
namely the Penitus Oculatus. However I have ordered my agents to mark their
numbers and observe them so that we may have warning next time.**

I— The Thalmor are not a reactionary First Emmisary, we _cause_ reaction, we are
the preemptive strike, the first blow, or have you forgotten this?

**E— No sir, I have not forgotten that maxim.**

I— Interesting…then may I draw your attention to the massive break in security
to the Embassy itself during one of your inane sorries? We know that this was an
infiltration by the Blades. The Blades, First Emissary! These heretics were
suppose to be hunted down long ago, and yet their dwindling numbers were able to
stage what frankly was an intelligence coup in infiltrating your very Embassy.

**E— …Yes sir, I admit that the fault is mine, the mediatory safeguards were not
enough in this case. I should have increased screening of the guests who entered
the Embassy grounds and limited the number of people here at any given time.**

I— If you spent less time trying to woo the sycophants of Skyrim and more time
doing your duty, perhaps we wouldn’t have disgraces of this magnitude. You also
failed to capture the former Blade, Esbern. I have read the after action report,
what is your excuse this time?

**E— Sir, we didn’t expect interference during the operation to seize Esbern in
the Ratway Warrens. We had reliable intelligence from first hand sources and our
own informants. The Jusiticars were reported to be within reach of Esbern before
the Dragonborn arrived. The operation was well planned and executed to the
letter until Ysmir interfered.**

I— You are taught to expect the unexpected First Emmisary, did it not occur to
you that the Blades, who are sworn to find and protect any and all Dragonborns
would seek this one out?! That should have the most predictable occurrence of
any.

**Further transcription forthcoming**.
