---
title: The Lonely Tree
reddit: 2m7t2n
author: crikeylol
date: 2014-11-13T21:04:48Z
about: |
  This is the beginning of a long series of Apocrypha; I was heavily inspired by
  /u/IceFireWarden. I would love some critisism, good or bad. I’m not that good
  of a writer but figured that would just come to me along the way.
---

The Lonely Tree sat atop his mountain, far from his brothers. It got lonelier
every day, and this made the Tree sad.

One day, everybody started fighting, and the Tree did not know why, but he
didn’t like it, so he took his mountain, and isolated himself even more.

As the fighting continued, the water started to rise. It rose until the point
where his lonely Mountain was now a lonely island.

As time went by, even his brothers had forgotten about him, and this made the
Tree very sad.

But one day, the Tree felt something change, something he had not felt in a long
time. He was no longer alone, for a being had washed up on his lonely island.

The Tree was finally no longer alone, but he could feel that this being was very
close to death. So the Tree cared for it, fed it, and even bathed it.

The tree taught it the ways of speech and magick, of mathematics and metaphysics
and of Love and kindness.

But the being was very slow, but in time, the being learned everything the tree
had to teach.

The Tree was finally happy, finally having a friend to talk to. But the being
felt lonely, and the Tree felt it.

The Tree feeling that its time was drawing near, so he decided he would give up
his remaining life so that his friend would not have to feel the lonelyness he
felt.

So the Tree called the being to the top of his mountain. The Tree explained that
it was it’s time to go, this made the being sad but knew that to refuse Death is
to refuse Life itself, so the being listened to what the Tree had to say.

_“You have stood by me for all these years._

_I do not wish for you to feel the same pain I felt._

_So I am giving you this gift, come to me.”_

So the being embraced the Tree with all of its might, and recieved his gift.

He woke up on a pile of leaves, surrounded in what looked like smaller versions
of him self who asked him

_“Who…are…you ?”_

The being thought for a moment.

_“I…we…are..the Elt, the Slow Folk”_
