---
title: Obscure Myths of Meridia
reddit: 2m8a1a
author: Kurufinve
date: 2014-11-13T23:26:16Z
---

> Below is the conspect of the lecture, delivered in Gwylim University at 2 of
> Sun’s Dawn,3e432. Full memospore
> (№35XY-79543145-Star-Piercing-Pain-XC54GV44563F) or its transcribed version
> (“Obscure myths of Meridia” – Aelanta, Jarol I.; 87p.; 3e432, Gwylim) can be
> found archived in University of Gwylim

{:tag="aside" .foreword}

Wellcome everyone assembled and visiting us in state of aad semblio. Today
Xarxes will erase the lie, surrounding Meridia. To many of you she is known as
Prince of Misrule, consort of deamons, patron of heretical Ayleids et cetera.
Those, who dedicated their lives to mythogenealogy, may refer to her as Magna-Ge
– Star Orphan, who betrayed our kin. But she is our Ancestor! One of the
greatest! For many thousands years her deeds were hidden from us by foul
conspiracy, but it will be undone today under the starlight.

In the excavation site of Ayleidian ruins in Valenwood more complete version of
“Tract of Merid-Nunda” was found. With the help of Sawalenth of Elden Root’s
Magic Guild we were able to translate many passages. Indeed, as it goes, Meridia
came into existence when Magnus left Mundus.

> Magus placed the skull on the left eye and he put the candle on the right and
> took the staff with both hands and turned it. Disk engaged in hurling as
> non-laws commanded, until it raised closer to Placidy-Realm. Soon the tower of
> ordered music mounted around Spirit, leaving his hands buried beneath and him
> sitting atop. There was the beginning of Stair, which was the virtual star
> line, folded in itself into thread. Magus made a step, and Tower exploded into
> trumpet. Ascension was long and painful, for Magnus was looking at Tear, which
> made his eyes burn and spurtle, and brilliant blood was dripping from his
> shoulders, for never again he will get his hands back. From this blood
> children were born, whose number is 21+incalculable; Orphans saw their father
> leaving and dropped many tears, but glister named Merid-Nunda arised and
> asked, “How long will we mourn the love of our father, who is not here anymore
> and will not return? Bid your farewell to grief and follow him”. They made
> their own ladders, as did many spirits, who saw the Event and came to follow.
> However, soon Disk lost it’s moment, crumbled and fall at the bottom of Void.
> No more this road can be walked.

That’s widely known part, which connects Meridia with Magnus and his children.
Next part is famous too, for it was translated many years ago. Yet incompletely.

> They stood in Halls of Mildness and question was inquired by Ag-Nil, “answer,
> Father, why have you abandoned those, who now are below us?” And mild quiet
> was the answer. “Are we to forsake those, who need our help?” And mild quiet
> was the answer. “Destiny of mortals is now measured on silver scales, will you
> attend it?” And mild quiet was the answer. Upon hearing this Merid turned her
> back to Wizard and left, leaving the deep marks on the floor with claws of her
> bare feet. Those, who followed her were Nine Coruscants – they descended the
> parabolas left By Magnus and their sacrafice is known in every quarter

As you can clearly see, Meridia came back to attend Convention. Unfortunately,
the next pages were lost and we can not learn what had been said there. Or can
we? Together with my colleague Jarol we spent many months studying northern
folklore and find something interesting. Now you may wave aside these “tales”,
but only after you will hear them out.

> The rainbow had twinkled on the Kyne’s sturdy skin
>
> And dragons did gather to drink much of mead
>
> Unholy Aurora, a blight on the sky
>
> Has took their reins to move backward time
>
> They thrashed and they danced – Cradle forever reshaped
>
> Its stones froze above and were stolen
>
> Too late!

Please, refrain from such comments. You can discuss the quality of rhymes next
door – Sapiarch of Mythopoetia is giving master-class right now.

Now, back to the diamond of words. On the first glance, this poem has no sense.
It clearly mentions Aurora – Meridia and something about control over dragons
(similar notes are present in Tract – “stretching the dragon”). But think about
“frozen stones”, does it ring any bell? Eton Nir – Wonder of Fatherland. By the
thaumaturgical meanings, granted by this very institution we calculated the
height of Floating Mountain – it is placed roughly 75 hundred meters above the
sea level. That’s the height of Mount Everwhite – Throat of the World as Nords
call it – White Tower. They match together almost perfectly. According to the
Nordic rhyme, presented above, Eton Nir was created be none other than Meridia
herself. Eton Nir, where Temple of Magnus is located, where her name is
forbidden.

Another proof of this theory was found inside Ysmir Collective. That is a story
from Mythic times:

> Chief Magnar took the blade of Dawn and broke the armies of Men. Mighty
> draugrs turned into dust, honored ghosts turned into mist and now we were
> outnumbered eight to one. But Kyne had shouted freeze into him, moving as fast
> as wind. “For my troops undoing I shall undo you and your Star-Town”
> Shield-wife quethened. She departed to the longhouse of other tribe and
> inhaled all the air inside and no more it was able to breath or shout there.
> Then she exhaled with mighty roar, which brought our tribe back to the
> mountaintop of Hrothgar, from where city was stolen. Tears were flowing from
> Magnar eyes, for he was looking at his dying companions, but that didn’t last
> long, for Mother of Sky separated chieftain’s head and brought it to her
> husband.
>
> “Kyne had taken the head of Magnar, the jarl that betrayed the weakness of our
> spear-lines and fled the field. Shor shook his scaled mane. “That isn’t
> Magnar,” he said, “Magnar, I fear, fell at sunrise and his daughter replaced
> him by mirrors.

Again we can read evidences, that there was a “city, stolen from the Hrothgar”.
Even more: it says about “Star-Town”, from where air had been taken, so it
became impossible to breath. And that is the exact reason, why there’s Sky-Dome
around Cloudrest – it grants the ability to breath inside. That Star-Town is
said to be “of Magnar’s Daughter” – Meridia. For the creation alone of this Hold
she is worthy of our worshipping. But here are two parts of last and more
important source, found in the library of Direnni:

> No more that was the home for Mer, so they placed \[unreadable\] of Auri-El
> unto crystal throne and left the Elder Wood to the strains of mannish insults.
> And when they reached the border of land, Prince of Life appeared before them
> and delivered a message, “My Realm was upon you all that time, for I created
> it to be near you. But now my people go away and I won’t be able to accompany
> you in this form. But my descendant is among you and he will guide you, while
> my light will show you the way”

---

> Xarin, who had the light mark on his right cheek, brought his crown upon and
> said. “I’m the king of this city and my word is law like crystal. Meridia is
> foul and noone will honour her any more”. Xanir, who had the light mark on his
> left cheek, cried, “Rude speaker! You call names of your ancestor. Let your
> foolishness be denounced by Xarxes, who remember ever birth and death and
> life”. But Xarxes looked away and said nothing. At this point it was clear,
> that Mer no more cared about ancestry and end of the world is near. Therefore
> Xanir removed his feet, for he didn’t want to stay on the same heaven as his
> brother and didn’t want to walk the same road. He jumped down from the city
> back to where it all began, for he wanted to fall and splinter alike the star
> ray is splintered into many, but suddenly Xanir was turned into a bird and
> many mers followed him. Their names were erased from the scrolls of Xarxes and
> Xarin proclaimed himself a descendant of Magnus.

Let it be known to everymer, that it was Meridia, who made holy Eton Nir,
Cloudrest, helped move it to Sumer’et and still look after us from every star.
Priests of Magnus tried to remove her from our books, but the end to obscurity
has come. Meridia is our Ancestor!
