---
series: Dragon Priests
part: 4
title: Horror of Haafingar
subtitle: Volskygge and Volsung
reddit: 2mf19u
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-11-15T22:50:25Z
pseudonym: Imperial Scholar Lucius Flavius
---

As we continued our exploration of Skyrim for her ancient Nordic ruins we came
to the hold of Haafingar and the capital city of the province, Solitude. As we
asked our the city for any rumors of barrows or ruins in the hold we were
quickly alerted to a rumor amongst the cities guards and citizens. They said
that the ruin of Volskygge to the west was haunted and that the dead still roam
its halls. One citizen in particular, Jawanan, told us that in Volskygge there
resided a wall black as night that apparently spoke in the ancient dragon
tongue. This was all the confirmation we needed and we soon made for Volskygge.
During my time pouring over the Ysmir Collective I also took note that several
tomes mentioned a dragon priest whose deeds were so malevolent they refused to
put them to print and was buried somewhere in Haafingar. We hoped that this ruin
contained the remains of this priest.

We continued west through the hold asking for rumor and word of this mysterious
ruin. We were finally pointed to an area just on the cusp of the Reach. What we
were struck by immediately when we came into view of the barrow was its apparent
size. Outside there was a maze of passageways and tunnels that led to the
entrance. After we had snooped around the ruins for the better part of the
morning. It appears that there had once been two canals or aqueducts emerging
from the flanks of the ruin and continuing on down further. It was only after
the morning fog had been parted by the wind that one of my fellow scholars cried
out and pointed to the top of the mountain. As the fog parted we could see what
appeared to be the top of Volskygge. We could see a great arch and stairs
leading up to the unknown. It was immediately apparent that the ruin didn’t
delve into the roots of the mountain, but went straight up and what we were
seeing must be the summit. We then decided we should proceed into Volskygge
itself.

Now it must be stated here that some of my colleagues believe Volskygge, like
High Gate Ruins, serves no other purpose that of a tomb. That is where the
similarities stop however. Where High Gate Ruins is rather large, it does
contain pragmatic features such as traps and puzzles, Volskygge contains all
this and more. This ruin is simply bombastic and truly speaks to the grandeur
and arrogance of the patron. Through a small entry way, we entered into what was
unmistakably a throne room. It was quite large, with two small sets of stairs
reaching the dais on which a throne sat, empty now. Now the first few chambers
perplexed us, as this seemed to indicate that perhaps this might be something
else other than a tomb. This was compounded as we ventured further into the ruin
through a long stretch of corridors, to a dining area. A single row of tables
was stretched out in front of us with many ornate chandeliers above it all. The
connected areas appeared to be storage areas for food and perhaps even a kitchen
at some point. We wondered if perhaps this was the site from which the dragon
priest resided and ruled from. It would stand to reason due to the throne room
being located so close to the entrance and then this dining area would serve the
priest and an assumed court later in the day. The next area suggested something
different though. We came to a large chamber, with four pedestals in the corners
of the room, and a four coffins connected back to back to each other in the
middle of the room. On the far edge of the room, a sealed gate and in front of
that, a black pedestal with a dusty old tome. It was titled “The Four Totems of
Volskygge.” I shall copy the entirety of the text here.

All four are bound to the same land as we. Some lay low, consumed in shadow,
Others stand tall, stretching their necks to see. While none live in this sacred
barrow, They all demand your attention if you are to proceed. The first fears
all, The second fears none. The third eats what it can, Preferably number one.
The fourth fears the second, But only when alone. All must be activated in
order, If you wish to go home.

Obviously it was a puzzle that required solving if we wanted to proceed. We
studied the four pedestals in the corners of the room. Each had a different
carving on it, they were a wolf, fox, bear and snake. It was a simple riddle and
test of logic then. We were worried about the coffins arrayed in the middle of
the room and deduced it would be wise to get this right the first time, lest we
find out what was inside. Through our collective reasoning we came to this
conclusion. The snake would fear all, the bear would fear none, the fox would
eat the snake, and the wolf would only fear the bear if it was away from its
pack. We then pulled the levers in order and miraculously the gate opened and we
proceed.

We then continued down a set of stairs into a next part of the barrow which can
only be described as a long, winding set of passages. The first part of these
passages were made up entirely of catacombs, rows and rows of skeletons and
draugr were laid out. Several areas opened up to vast chambers with yet more
open graves. There were a staggering amount of dead here. If this was the burial
place of a dragon priest (by now we were nearly certain) he could sustain
himself for ages. Then we came to a part that perplexed us. An unadorned tunnel.
It simply looked like a tunnel from any old cave, one that was invested by
spiders that is. We were worried that this would just go on and on and that this
actually wasn’t passages to the ruins we had seen at the summit of this
mountain. At last we came to a doorway of ancient Nordic make. After a few
twists we came into another large chamber. This one laid out before us sported a
canal running through the middle, the water still flowing with two bridges
across, leading to stairs going further up. This took a sharp left and up some
further stairs we came at last to a doorway where a draft was unmistakable.
(Note: We attribute the unadore tunnel section to a hasty build. It seems that
they might have started construction on the summit and at the foot of the
mountain simultaneously and failed to meet in the middle, necessitating a quick
tunneling. One of my peers also put forward the idea that they used this natural
tunnel through the rock and planned to renovate it, but it seems the end came
swifter than expected for this location.)

Finally we exited the ruin and into the open sky. Up a set of stairs we came to
an open sarcophagus and the word wall we were seeking. Inside the coffin like
all the other ruins we found battered armor, ash, and a mask. We determined that
this was the mask of Volsung. It seemed to be made of corundum and had a reddish
hue to it. Our mages determined it would allow the wearer to breathe even while
underwater, as well as fortify ones constitution so they might carry more before
becoming fatigued. They also sensed that it could improve one’s natural ability
to persuade. Now my fellow scholars and I have debated the translated name of
the mask. Most literally you can derive “Horror” from “Vol.” Now my peers have
pointed out that you can also find “Air” in the name from “Su.” One could take
it to mean “Air Horror” or “Horrific Air.” We do all agree though that horror is
the defining feature of the name. We then turned our attention to the world wall
which had this written out upon it.

Noble Nord, remember these words of the Hoar Father -Oblivion hath no fury like
\[a\] shield maiden scorned.

It seems that these word walls also contained the wisdom of the ages, to be
passed down to the next generation. Now we are left with a question as to what
exactly is Volskygge and what it can tell us about Volsung who is interred here.
While the ruin contains elements that might suggest a place of rule and
residence, the complete lack of any other living facilities implies that this is
one of the most elaborate tombs we have come across as of late. We argue that
the throne room and dining area models those Volsung used in a separate site we
have yet to uncover. It seems that Volsung was a priest of much wealth and held
an extremely large following to construct such a place of burial. This seems to
stem from his nature, or so we can guess. Horror seems to do this priest
justice. To construct Volskygge simply to be a tomb tells us much about Volsung.
He must have ruled through fear exclusively and the tales and legends of him say
that he was not afraid to carry out atrocities on his subjects in order to
secure their allegiance. One could also argue that the dragons provided him with
this place of burial as a gift for serving them well. Whatever the case is,
Volsung suffered no competitor here in Haafingar and lived to his end much
deserving of his name.
