---
title: Koboldada
subtitle: A Most Certainly Non-Canonical Goblin Creation Myth
reddit: 2n8s50
author: pipplebee
date: 2014-11-24T07:07:36Z
about: Hi everyone!
---

The hosts of spirits that would be Men and would be Elves were sitting across
from each other, discussing terms of war. As the moot droned on, several
factions from either side stood up and began shuffling away.

One of the presiding spirits, massive and with perpetually crossed arms took
notice.

“Where do you think you’re going?” Said Trinimac.

“Sorry,” They said “but this is boring and dumb as HELL. A pitched battle? Even
now that seems contrived and barely anything has happened yet. If you want to
kill each other, go for it. But we’re all stuck here regardless, see what good
it does you.

And with that they left.

For some time they just loitered and wandered about creation, until they came
upon another big spirit leaning against a mountain and flipping a coin in his
hand.

The most that can be said of his appearance is that he was not an elf.

“Hey.” He said. “That was pretty cool what you did back there.”

“Who are you?” They asked.

“If you want a name, I’ve only got honorifics and pejoratives and neither suit
me completely. Suffice it to say I’m a pretty big deal.”

To see him was to know it was so.

“What’s most important to understand is that this is MY world. I more or less
made it. With a little help.”

He gestured at the sun: “Yeah, you BETTER run! Ha HA ha!”

“My point is, I like you guys. I want to do you a favor that’ll make things a
lot easier from here on in. Things are going to get crazy. As we speak new
things are taking shape.”

He peered over the top of the mountain. “See? Oh look at that one! Oh, gross!
What the Hell is that? And oh look at that one! Ha HA ha!”

“Ahem.”

“Huh- Oh yeah. So here’s the thing- Me, the elves, Men, even grumpy mister
Trinimac— we’re all real important. And it’s a drag. It’s overrated. My gift to
shall be The Virtue of Unimportantance.”

He picked up one of the little spirits “Hup.”

He began reshaping the spirit, bending and stretching its legs, pulling out its
hair. Bigger ears, bigger nose. Less teeth here, more over there.

“Mhmm, that’s it.” He dunked the spirit in a lake and when he pulled it out it
was green.

“‘Ere we go. Now you’re so lame and ugly and inconsequential that when the world
ends it will forget to take you with it.”
