---
series: Dragon Priests
part: 10
title: He Who Increaseth Knowledge, Increaseth Sorrow
subtitle: Kolbjorn Barrow and Ahzidal
reddit: 2o76hc
author: ddaybones
date: 2014-12-03T22:32:04Z
pseudonym: Imperial Scholar Lucius Flavius
---


If one wishes to learn about Solstheim, one must learn from the Skaal. After our
discovery in White Ridge I set off immediately for the Skaal village on the
eastern edge of island to see if they kept any lore of the dragon priests.
However their shamen seemed rather reluctant to divulge any information, they
seemed apprehensive, nervous about the subject. Finally after more imploring,
they brought me a [book][0] (to appease me it seemed) that told of a man known
as _“Ahzidal”_ who was known to be a dragon priest. I will discuss at length
this man and his deeds, but first I needed to know where to find him. Some
scholars hold that he was buried or ran to ground in Saarthal, but the tales of
the Skaal say he was entombed in Kolbjorn Barrow here on Solstheim. I had heard
of some unpleasantness involving a score of dead miners and a barrow by the same
name when I had stayed in Raven Rock. I therefore returned to the town to learn
the location of this tomb.

What I learned from the miners who were smart enough not to work on the Kolbjorn
dig was that four separate attempts had been made to unearth the barrow and
locate the so called “Relics of Ahzidal.” After the fourth attempt, with all the
miners dead from the awakened draugr, or worse and the foreman’s disappearance,
all agreed that the tomb was a deathtrap and that none would now go near it.
Even some of my fellow scholars appeared apprehensive, but I was driven to learn
the truth of these Solstheim priests and declared I would go alone if necessary.
In the end a handful of my companions decided to join me, the rest decided to
learn of anymore priests located on the island.

Kolbjorn itself was not far from Raven Rock, and with the miners direction we
found it without trouble. It was quite clear why it needed excavating, being
located on the southern edge of the island ensured it was buried in ash from Red
Mountain’s eruption. The barrow itself was designed much like smaller open air
tombs back in Skyrim, except for the door that took one further into the ruins.
The first room we entered was full of niches for draugr as well as the slain
dezains who had occupied them. The blood from the miners could still be seen,
but I paid it little heed as we pressed on. The next room was expansive and
multi leveled. A central pillar connected by walkways the miners had constructed
connected the various levels. It was here we found one of the first Relics, a
pair of boots sitting upon a pedestal. We decided not to take any shortcuts and
explore the barrow thoroughly rather than rushing towards the end. We did
encounter something unexpected, a word wall on the bottom floor and I did detour
to take down what was written upon it and the translation.

This) stone commemorates Hrodmir the Broken who (unknown) all his (unknown) and
(unknown) to strike (unknown) (unknown) of his brother.

This translation put my abilities to the test and I am rather embarrassed to
publish it with this many blanks in it. However we do get the general picture of
it, yet another memorial to either a fallen kinsman or clansman. Returning to
the top level and setting across the bridge into the next area we found yet more
rooms for the buried dead, and there was no shortage of them. The area was also
heavily guarded with more booby traps, mercifully most of these had been either
set off by the miners or by the awakened dead. We did find two areas that must
have been missed the miners and we opened these up to find yet more Relics, a
ring and gauntlets this time. A staircase lead us further into the tomb and to a
decision to go left or right. We chose right first and it opened up into a large
room with a unique floor. Behind a gate was yet another Relic, a second ring. We
quickly solved the puzzle and backtracked to the stairs and took the left
passage. This room was contained yet more puzzles but we found out why.
Ahzidal’s armor set lay behind another gate. It just a matter of finding the
right animal totems and we had it. A winding staircase in the floor lead us down
further. This final area contained more tombs for the draugr and traps. It was
clear that Ahzidal wanted to protect his Relics from all others. We found his
helm in a booby trapped room and hoped that would be the last of the rigged
Relics. Our prayers were answered it seems as we entered into the final area. It
was a round room with coffins lining the outside, above yet more arranged in a
similar manner as in Bloodskal Barrow, and in the middle what appeared to be a
summoning circle. In the middle of the circle lay what I sought, the mask of
Ahzidal.

The tome the Skaal showed me told that Ahzidal was the first great enchanter of
the Nords, if Ysgramor had mastered Elven runes first, then it was Ahzidal who
had mastered their enchantments. Indeed after surpassing his Nordic masters, he
left his home of Saarthal to learn from the elves. After many years he returned
to Saarthal, only to find the place had been razed to the ground after the Night
of Tears. It was here that he swore an oath of vengeance and took the name
“Ahzidal” which can translate to “Embittered Destroyer” or “Bitter Destroyer”
the meaning is the same though. We only known him now by this name, his first
name is lost to the ages. He understood that alone he was powerless to take his
revenge, but with insidious purpose, delved into the craft of enchanting like
never before, learning all he could from the elves so that he might one day turn
this knowledge against them. After learning of Ysgramor’s return with the Five
Hundred Companions, he rode for three days and nights nonstop to offer his
services and skills. So it was with Atmoran steel and Ahzidal’s enchantments,
they laid the Snow Elves low, forcing them from the land. He finally had his
revenge, but he was not satisfied. He began to learn from the dragons and their
runes, eventually becoming a priest in the Dragon Cult. However this still was
not enough and he sought out the knowledge of Oblivion and found it, at the cost
of his sanity.

Ahzidal’s tale is remarkable and holds a warning for all, yet I feel like the
old lore holds important truths that can help us understand the history of
Skyrim, as well as a few gaps that I will attempt to explain and discuss. First
of all it is clear that Ahzidal was part of some of the earliest immigrants to
Skyrim from Atmora, Saarthal was the first capital of men in Tamriel so he must
have arrived here around the late Merethic Era. Now it is unclear who he studied
with for those first three years but he was spared from the Night of Tears
because of his absence. After taking his oath of revenge it appears that he
traveled extensively throughout Tamriel to learn his craft. We find that he
learned from the Snow Elves in Skyrim, he must have been a man of much patience
and restraint to learn from those who had burned his home. It seems though that
he labeled all mer his enemies and learned from everything he could from them. I
find it intriguing that he was able to learn from the Dwemer who were known for
their secretive and reclusive nature. The tale says that he _“learned the seven
natures of metal and how to harmonize them.”_ What this means though I fear is
lost with the Dwemer, yet it is interesting that they were willing to share
their secrets with an outsider, a Nord no less. For the simple fact that he did
learn from them, I feel that he sought out the clans in Resdayn (modern day
Morrowind) rather than the clans in Skyrim. My belief in this supported by the
fact that he also learned from the Chimer, also from Resdayn.

He also must have traveled into what is now Cyrodiil because he from the Ayleids
he learned, _“the ancient runes and dawn-magic even the elves had begun to
forget.”_ The fact that he learned from the Ayleids is also remarkable, because
we know well from history that they enslaved men, which lead to their eventual
downfall. Perhaps it was a splinter group of the Ayleids that taught Ahzidal,
but he must have held immense knowledge to even begin to study from that ancient
race. Finally it says that he learned from the Altmer, and this presents a
problem to me. Now I highly doubt that he was able to travel all the way to the
Summerset Isle. However he ancient Aldmer had settled in High Rock and given
that this was in the late Merethic Era, I hold that the earliest Altmer were
also located here and it was in High Rock that Ahzidal learned from them.

From his tale we can also clear up some lingering questions about Skyrim’s early
history. We know now that the famous Return of Ysgramor and his Companions took
place before the Dragon War. Ahzidal’s rise to priesthood in the Dragon Cult
wouldn’t make sense if the War had taken place beforehand. Indeed it was after
the Return that Ahzidal began to learn from the dragons themselves. In becoming
a priest it seems that he was able to retain the name he had given himself,
probably due to what he was able to accomplish in his time amongst the elves.
Yet he it appears that even the dragons knowledge could not sate his lust. It
says that he sought out the knowledge of Oblivion but I now believe he sought
out a particular Daedric Prince.

I found another one. Another Black Book. It was deep inside Kolbjorn just past
the chamber Ahzidal was interred in. It’s starting to make sense now. The legend
says that after he was driven mad by the knowledge of Oblivion he was cast out
by his fellow priests and feld here to Solstheim. I believe he sought out the
forbidden knowledge of Apocrypha the realm of Hermaeus Mora. Its only a feeling,
but I think Ahzidal was not cast out because of his loss of sanity, but for who
he sought out. I believe the other priests and even the dragons had a reason to
particularly fear Mora for a reason that seems just beyond the edge of my
knowledge. And then he came to Solstheim, because I think that he knew he could
find allies here, other priests who already swore service to Mora. That would
explain the connecting between Zahkroiisos and Dukaan, something was different
on Solstheim that cause this defection from the ranks of the Dragon Cult and
into Mora’s clutches. I still feel like I am missing something, that a piece of
the puzzle is missing…

[0]: https://uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ahzidal%27s_Descent
