---
title: |
  Strategies of the 4th Era Imperial Legion in respect to the Battle of Prisms
reddit: 3043ch
author: PADOMAIC-SPECTROMETE
date: 2015-03-24T08:53:29Z
pseudonym: Titus Pompeius, 4E 214
---

By the time Riften was occupied by the fourth legion in the spring of 4E 201,
the Imperial organisation had changed dramatically. The lack of professional
soldiers had forced the General assigned to Skyrim in a time of Dragon and
Dragonborn, Tullius, to recruit locally, and those brought under the Mede banner
were much more rabble than efficient. This was mostly due to the breaking away
of most Imperial provinces after the Great War, which had crippled the Empire
and left it under the White-Gold Concordat, leaving a loyal few in Skyrim,
Cyrodiil and High Rock with the role of provision. Additionally, the Imperial
economy had also largely declined, and much of their uniform had become cheap
leather, abandoning the heavy and sturdier steel designs of the past.

As a result of all these respects, tactics had also changed. In the past, the
Empire had been equally famed and feared for their vastly superior organisation.
They relied strongly on versatile heavy infantry, consisting of frontline
warriors and nimble mages. Supporting cavalry would also be present, normally
recruited from Nordic ranks, but sometimes others, depending on allegiances and
the situation. Beware the Imperial cavalry of guar composition!

To elaborate further, the Imperials had broken their foot soldiers into groups,
seven men deep and ten across in a checkerboard formation, so that they would
remain organised but also highly flexible. They were known as maniples, due to
the banner each group would carry into enemy lines. Heavy soldiers would rely on
a short-sword for quick and elegant stabs, a body-shield fashioned in a
nostalgic allusion to the Chim-El Abadal providing body protection atop the
iconic Imperial dress. Imperial mages would be more versatile. Before physical
engagement, they would line the front, harassing the enemy with destruction and
summoning magic, along with archers and skirmishers. When the enemy finally
impacted, the lighter units would fade through to the rear, the warriors
allowing them passage. Here they would fight around the sides of each maniple,
refusing the enemy themselves to come in casting distance, should they conjure a
storm of teleportation spells or general destruction. Cavalry would also play a
role in keeping any would-be routers at bay, while attempting to route the enemy
themselves. If needed, they would also play the role of general pre-battle
harassment, armed with ranged attacks themselves.

But by 4E 201, this had become radically different. Not only had the general
professionalism of the army dropped noticeably, but their attire was much less
protective. The strong lack of professional mages due to the disbandment of the
Mage Guild (its predecessors were much more interested in competition than
military duty) and general lack of recruitment also led to a lack of ranged
support. The maniples, as a result, became strengthened more-so in depth,
deepening from seven men to nine to account for the less powerful heavy
soldiers. The mages, in addition, now almost entirely composed of Breton and
Imperial recruits, were retired to horseback, where they would fill in surprise
and skirmish roles in contrast to normal cavalry, who would task themselves with
oppositional and defensive routing matters. Only archers now filled the ranged
main force. Where the Empire had once concerned themselves with sheer force and
discipline, they now relied on sly tactics to conserve a weaker constitution.

But to return to the Rift, where birch trees now began to blossom with new life,
and the undergrowth wiggled through melting snow, Tullius had a plan. Most
imperial forces had been on the defensive during this time, and up north, Ulfric
pillaged the lands from Downstar to Whiterun. To neither side could the
Dragonborn give aid, for he had been missing for some time along with Alduin.
But as for rebellion, Tullius had given them courage, and now he was going to
shatter it. In taking Riften, he had done so in hopes of surprise and disarray.
He had taken it upon himself to force-march his offensive assets from Solitude
to the borders of the Rift in a number of days, tasking his mages to task speed
and endurance spells en masse, killing all spies and scouts in his wake. He sent
no envoys. His enemies would have certainly caught ear of his plan, but they
would never be able to act fast enough. By the time he set up his first camp
directly outside Riften, its residents were in total shock. Panic spread like
wildfire, and before a supporting force could lift the unexpected siege, General
Tullius took the timid city with no remorse, permitting his soldiers to sack,
pillage and rape as they pleased. After the ordeal was over, all local keeps
were pacified of brigands and subsequently occupied. Soon the Rift was an
Imperial hive. Here, the empire prospered, as during this time, a factor most
armies had to take into account was a dragon assault, and the empire was
efficiently dispatch of such foes here, and using magic and physical constructs,
they would be constrained for a time after temporary death.

As would be expected, such barbarism and total destruction would be greatly
condemned by the Stormcloaks. But as Tullius no doubt considered, the act would
also be taken with a hint of suspicion. And so, many of those front-line rebel
garrisons stayed up north in apprehension, leaving a force directly from
Windhelm to march down south, as Tullius had hoped. Tullius had also hoped
Ulfric would lead the charge, as not only was he present there at the time, but
lifting a city debauched by Imperial barbarism would be a massive source of
propaganda. However, much to the disappointment of Tullius, Ulfric Stormcloak
did not lead the charge, and instead left one of his most trusted officials,
Arrald Frozen-Heart.

It is at this point, when both armies dispatched their abodes and descended into
the volcanic depression of Hjaalmarch, that the Battle of Prisms was set in
stone to play out. It is so aptly named, for the prismatic springs of that
inhospitable place were said to be ringed with blood for years to come.

(To be continued in Part Two)
