---
title: "Descriptions of the Potentate by those who saw him (in-character)"
reddit: 3658wr
author: Cyclenophus
date: 2015-05-16T07:02:37Z
about: |
  In this thread, we post snippets of dialogue from different people who saw
  Versidue-Shaie or his son Savirien-Chorak up close. I’ll post five to get the
  ball rolling and set the tone for the thread, then you go wild.
---

> “I was just a young girl when the Potentate got killed by the Dark Elves, so I
> only saw him once or twice. He was a very handsome young man with strong
> Nibenese features. Or at least he looked like a young man. I couldn’t be sure,
> as his face was always heavily obscured by a thick, purple silk veil. He
> didn’t go outside much, and he didn’t speak to anybody except his closest
> advisers. I think he was deeply unhappy, and paranoid. He never spoke to me,
> personally. He seemed to have a kind spirit, though, and I was saddened to
> hear of his death. His successors weren’t as nice. I wish they were as silent
> as he was.”
>
> _Catina, Palace Servant_{:tag="cite"}

<!-- -->

> “The Potentate? Savirien-Chorak? I barely remember. It’s been nearly 100
> years, and to be honest I never enjoyed the man’s presence much. Most of the
> time I spent with him involved lessons on Imperial history and how not to
> offend the Bishops at Sundas Mass. I’m told he was quite the warrior in his
> younger days, but those days were clearly very far in the past. He was quite
> old, or at least he seemed to be. The scales around his eyes were beginning to
> take on a translucent quality, like those of some of the older Argonian
> specimens I’ve met. It’s hard to tell with Tsaesci, though. His blood was as
> red as anybody’s. I unfortunately got the chance to examine the remains,
> during the investigation of the murder. I’m glad that nonsense is all behind
> me, now. If you’re finished bothering me, I need to get back to my
> administrative duties.”
>
> _Chancellor Abnur Tharn_{:tag="cite"}

<!-- -->

> “Oh, the ’Akaviri Potentates”. Yes. I seem to recall visiting the Imperial
> City during the reign of the eldest one. Vershu-something? Those foreigners
> have such strange names, even more so than you humans. The fact of the matter
> is that it’s an open secret among the nobility that neither “Akavir” nor the
> so-called “Akaviri” people exist. It was all Remanite propaganda to solidify
> Remus’ rule. If you ask me about this publicly, I’ll deny it. Oh, sure, there
> was a guy on the throne. A series of actors. Really just Raga-men in makeup.
> Some clever Altmeri illusion spells to give them a slightly golden hue. All
> simple parlor tricks that any hedge mage from Summerset could accomplish. The
> fact of the matter is that the Elder Council ruled Tamriel in the absence of
> Cyrodiilic heirs, and the Thalmor had them in their pocket. We would have
> gotten away with it, too, if not for the interference of those godless Dunmer
> filth. No matter. There shall be another day, indeed.”
>
> _Agent #1138 of the
> Artful Mantis Infiltration Society_{:tag="cite"}

<!-- -->

> “You’re asking me what I remember about Versidue-Shaie? Let me see. He liked
> his meat raw. Yes, raw. Not merely rare. He only seemed to eat meat. His skin
> was pallid, and his clothes were always of the finest material. Silk, mainly.
> He preferred reds and greens. His hair was white, and shoulder length. His
> features seemed almost Nordic, but there was something gaunt and odd about
> him, almost as if he were dead. The room in which I served him was always
> poorly lit, and he always brusquely dismissed his servants with a wave of his
> shriveled hand immediately before eating. Tomas claims he had fangs under
> those thin lips, and that he drained all the blood from his guar steaks and
> threw the rest away to the dogs. I’m not sure if that’s true, and I honestly
> don’t want to know.”
>
> _Brodus Dor, palace servant_{:tag="cite"}

<!-- >

> “Wanna know the gods’ honest truth? Promise you won’t tell anyone? The guy on
> the throne was just a puppet. The real Potentate was that giant eel he kept in
> the tank behind him. Thing mentally spoke through the fella in the chair. I
> know. It sounds crazy, but I swear one night I was up late, walkin’ through
> the corridors, makin’ my rounds, and I made eye contact with the thing. It
> spoke directly into my mind – with my own voice. I had to put in for a
> transfer to Mir Corrup soon after that. I’m just not built for that kind of
> thing.”
>
> _Antonius Carius, former palace guard_{:tag="cite"}
