---
title: 'Extract from "Tones, Moans and Shouts: The Voice in Tamriel"'
reddit: 373502
author: HighAlmaJaroon
date: 2015-05-24T12:48:38Z
---

> …the origin of Orsimeri Koguz is just as interesting and strange as the
> Orsimer themselves. Koguz is the act of singing in which the singer
> manipulates the resonances created as air travels from the lungs, past the
> vocal folds, and out of the lips to produce a melody. The lower incisors and
> thick lips of the Orcs helps produce a distinct sound.
>
> Koguz has its origins in Ancient Dwemereth, where Dwemer craftsmen would sing
> to their creations as part of the building process. Though we know they
> created it, we do not know the actual term for Koguz as the Dwemer called it.
> The Dunmer Ashlander people call it _Cithunif Yivohn_, possibly stemming from
> the unknown Dwemeri term for Koguz itself. It is clear to see how Koguz came
> to be known among the Orsimer, as the Dwemer had established civilizations all
> through Tamriel and it would take just one willing master and student to
> spread it among the Orsimer people.
>
> To the common observer, Koguz seems to behave like a ritual magic. However it
> shares more in common with the Shouting of Skyrim, Wind Whistling of the
> Maormer and the Yodelling of the Bretons. A common Orsimer myth on the power
> of Koguz tells of two Orcs having a scrap when one gets punched in the throat.
> He inadvertently lets out a yell in Koguz and destroys half his stronghold in
> the process. Korguz can be used to heal, enhance combat prowess and even ease
> travel (See: _Rag and the Seven City Step_). However it’s most often used as
> bait during a hunt, as a skilled Orsimer Huntsman can use it to imitate the
> mating call of the animal the party is hunting.
>
> Maormer Wind Whistling is an entirely different…
