---
title:
  "Numidium and the Battle of Red Mountain as a Competitive Reverse Mantling of
  Creation and Convention"
reddit: 38073t
author: DaSaw
date: 2015-05-31T21:47:56Z
---

Let’s see if I can do this. I noticed something about the sequence of events
leading up to, and as a consequence of, the events at Red Mountain.

First off, Both the Chimer (the Tribunal) and the Nords knew about the Dwemer
and the Heart only because Dagoth Ur informed them of it. We have no records of
how the Dwemer came across it in the first place. The usual assumption, of
course, is that they just stumbled across it during their usual subterranean
construction activities. But I find myself considering a second possibility.

There are records associating House Dagoth with all three major parties at the
Battle of Red Mountain. He fought alongside Nerevar but then slew him after
Nerevar returned with the Tribunal. No, he fought alongside Nerevar but fought
against the Tribunal after they murdered Nerevar. No, he was a general alongside
Wulfharth fighting for Shor/Lorhkhan on the side of the Nords and Orcs. No,
House Dagoth was allied with the other “secular House” Dwemer, and their
Nordic/Orcish mercenary allies. He is associated with all three. He is also
documented as having incited both the Tribunal and the Nords to be present at
Red Mountain. In the absence of documentation to the contrary, it becomes
possible that Dagoth was _also_ behind the Dwemer role in the Battle of Red
Mountain.

Why would I bother to assume this? Because it creates an interesting
possibility. We have a picture of Dagoth Ur going from party to party,
implanting the idea that lead to the events at Red Mountain. This mirrors a
similar narrative about Lorkhan, going from spirit to spirit suggesting the idea
that ultimately lead to Creation.

If you assume that only one of Dagoth Ur’s narratives is true, he can be said to
have convinced them (either the Chimer or the Nords) to go to Red Mountain, and
the same would be true if he played a similar role in the instigation of the
Numidium project. If you assume all three are true (that he was playing both
sides, or even all three sides), his role becomes assuredly deceptive in nature.
This mirrors Lorkhan’s role in his multiple narratives, being described as
either a visionary or a vile deceiver, depending on what stories you believe.

So then we get to the “Secret Song” version of the Battle at Red Mountain. In
this, Dagoth Ur fights for Lorkhan, who temporarily retrieves his heart, but has
it removed in a fashion similar to the way it was removed in the first place. In
this, Dumac, Nerevar, and Alandro Sul together mantle Trinimac, defeating
Lorkhan again, freeing up the heart. But the only reason they were there in the
first place was because Dagoth Ur convinced them to be there (in at least the
case of Nerevar and Alandro Sul… and I will propose that he also had a role in
bringing Dumac there, as well).

Lorkhan loses his heart for all time, but Dagoth Ur, having successfully mantled
Lorkhan, can now assuming ownership of the Heart. This explains how he was able
to attune to the heart without the aid of the tools.

I will now speculate as to the role Dagoth Ur played with regard to the Dwemer.

The Dwemer were supposedly studying the process by which the Divine wills itself
into the profane, attempting to develop a means by which the process could be
reversed. I propose that the Numidium Project was the result of this study. If
this was purely the result of Dwemer work, this tells us little. But if Dagoth
Ur was the one to propose this idea in the first place (thus giving substance to
the association between “secular Houses” Dwemer and Dagoth), it creates an
incredibly intriguing possibility.

Dagoth Ur proposes the Numidium project (Lorkhan proposes Creation). Kragenac
and his followers do the primary design work on the project (Magnus is the
architect behind creation), but at the last minute, due to the progress of the
Battle of Red Mountain (which Dagoth set up himself), disappears along with his
followers (Magnus and the Magna-Ge leave creation in response to Lorkhan’s
betrayal). Dagoth Ur, afterward, incorporates the Heart into his being (Lorkhan
has the heart removed from his being). That last pair are opposites, because the
new story at Red Mountain is the reverse of the old story of Creation, the
Dwemer seeking to cause the profane to will itself into the divine.

Now, the Tribunal also manage to use the Heart to achieve divine power… but as
can be seen during the events of Morrowind (the game), their stolen power is not
equal to Dagoth Ur’s “rightful” possession of the Heart. The Tribunal are
pretenders; Dagoth Ur has mantled divinity properly. But Vivec is clever. He
figures out what has happened (his observation of Tiber Septim may have provided
the clue), and so cleverly positions himself in the right part of the story.

He knows Azura intends to return Nerevar to them, to punish them for their
iniquity ages past. But even as Azura manipulates the Nerevarine toward her
chosen destiny, Vivec turns the Nerevarine’s destiny _just so_. By aiding the
Nerevarine, sending him to deprive Dagoth Ur of his heart by Vivec’s authority,
he mantles Auri-El, sending Trinimac forth to do the same. As such, Dagoth Ur is
defeated… but Vivec is not. Vivec instead ascends, just as Auri-El did all those
ages ago, having mantled Auri-El. He becomes immune to Azura’s vengeance, and
assumes a legitimate form of divinity.

tl;dr: The Numidium Project and the resulting Battle of Red Mountain was the
reverse of Creation and Convention, with Dagoth Ur playing the role of Lorkhan,
Kragenac playing the role of Magnus, Dumac/Nerevar/Alandro Sul playing the role
of a sort of reverse Trinimac, but then Vivec turned it right back around,
playing the role of Auri-El and sending the Nerevarine forth to play the role of
Trinimac, once again.

EDIT: Accidentally said “Lorkhan” where I meant “Dagoth Ur”. Jumped the gun a
bit.
