---
title: The City of Dragonstar, by Caratacus Avalendi
reddit: 472362
author: Rubikia
date: 2016-02-22T18:07:25Z
---

> Written sometime in the first years of the 4^th^ Era by a novice Cyrodiilic
> Scholar.
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

Dragonstar, a large city located on the border between Hammerfell and Skyrim, is
an ancient mannish city state generally considered to date back to the First
Era. Its architecture is mostly Nordic, with grand rising towers of stone and
deep tunnels connecting to remote districts.

During the War of Bend’r-mahk following a lengthy siege, the forces of Skyrim
occupied the eastern districts of the city, of which is known nowadays as
Dragonstar East, and the rest continued to be under the control of Hammerfell.
The districts that make up Dragonstar East are nestled between the Druadach
Mountains, with its defenses and city walls reaching awe inspiring heights.

Dragonstar West, however, is far more level, harboring more shops and housing
compared with its eastern neighbor, it also has the iconic Dragon Fountain in
its central plaza. Though seemingly prosperous, Dragonstar West has a major
shortage of food and a large influx of Redguard refugees forced out of Skyrim.

Outlying Dragonstar West is the village of Dragonfields, which is solely
responsible for growing food for Dragonstar West. Dragonfields’ soil has slowly
degraded over time in efficiency, and some blame Mages employed by Skyrim for
this misfortune.

Dragonstar East and West are separated by both walls and a small river, but this
does not stop the contesting sides vying for control of the other half. The war
still continues to this day, however as of now it remains in a stalemate as it
has done for many years.

## Version 1.1

Dragonstar, a large city located on the border between Hammerfell and Skyrim, is
an ancient human city state generally considered to date back to the First Era.
Some say it was built by the Nords, some say the Nedes, some use the term
interchangeably, but alas I do not know for sure. Its architecture nowadays at
the least is mostly Nordic, with grand rising towers of stone and deep tunnels
connecting to remote districts. Though there are many Redguard structures in the
western areas including the Temple of M’qad and the outer city wall.

The oldest building in Dragonstar is the Dragonstar Arena, a huge structure that
attracted the many peoples to settle within its walls. The Dragonstar Arena
continues to hold a grand tournament every fortnight, with many gladiators doing
battle and exotic creatures from around Nirn partaking. This has been apparent
since records of Dragonstar began.

During the War of Bend’r-mahk following a lengthy siege, the forces of Skyrim
occupied the eastern districts of the city, of which is known nowadays as
Dragonstar East, and the rest continued to be under the control of Hammerfell.
The districts that make up Dragonstar East are nestled between the Druadach
Mountains, with its defences and city walls reaching awe inspiring heights.
Dragonstar West, however, is far more level, harbouring more shops and housing
compared with its eastern neighbour; it also has the iconic Dragon Fountain in
its central plaza. Though seemingly prosperous, Dragonstar West has a major
shortage of food and a large influx of Redguard refugees forced out of Skyrim.

Outlying Dragonstar West is the village of Dragonfields, which is solely
responsible for growing food for Dragonstar West. Dragonfields' soil has slowly
degraded over time in efficiency, and some blame Mages employed by Skyrim for
this misfortune. The citizens of Dragonstar as a whole are very suspicious, not
knowing who is a spy and who is a friend. Families are split in Dragonstar,
sometimes physically and mentally. There has been no shortage of Nords aligned
with Hammerfell or Redguards aligned with Skyrim throughout its long history. A
notable occasion of this happening was that during the Oblivion Crisis. Though a
mutual cooperation between the two halves of the city was imposed at this time,
neither wanted nor could realistically work together. However the Sheriff of
Dragonstar East, a man by the name of Leif Ulfingsen who was conspiring with the
governor of Dragonstar West for some time by this point, opened the gates and
allowed the Redguards to temporarily occupy the Skyrim controlled districts. The
Redguard army, now stronger and in control of all of Dragonstar’s defences, were
able to defend themselves from the onslaught of Oblivion for many weeks. However
soon after, High King Eldrin, son of Erling, attempted to recapture Skyrim’s
lost city. The Redguard occupants were warred down by their otherworldly
opponents, thus Eldrin was able take Dragonstar East with ease.

Dragonstar East and West are separated by both walls and a small river with a
small Imperial fortification overlooking said construct, but this does not stop
the contesting sides vying for control of the other half. The war still
continues to this day, however as of now it remains in a stalemate, as it has
done for many years.

> NOTE: This is my first venture into this sort of thing, written specifically
> for my mod for _TES V: Skyrim_ that adds the entrance of Dragonstar.
{:tag="aside" .afterword}
