---
series: Brynjar’s Compendium of the Six Walking Ways
part: 4
title: Love, the Fusion of Souls and Conclusion
reddit: 4n8i5v
author: BrynjarIsenbana
date: 2016-06-09T01:14:56Z
---

|       Previous       |            Up            | Next |
| :------------------: | :----------------------: | :--: |
| [Part III](./4n8i4m) | [Introduction](./4n8i1y) |  --  |

## The Love

> Late is the lover that comes to this by any other walking way than the fifth,
> which is the number of the limit of this world. The lover is the highest
> country and a series of beliefs. He is the sacred city bereft of a double. The
> uncultivated land of monsters is the rule. This is clearly attested by ANU and
> his double, which love knows never really happened.

CHIM is by far the most common theme around these parts, so much that we have a
section of the FAQ dedicated to it:

> CHIM is a state of enlightenment. When one learns that all of existence is the
> “dream” of the Godhead (an unknowable entity), they will come to one of two
> conclusions — that they do not truly exist, or that they _do_ exist as
> themselves in spite of all logic to the contrary. While the former realization
> results in them ceasing to exist (called _zero-summing_), the latter (that is,
> saying “I am” in the face of “You are not”) results in achieving CHIM.
> Achieving CHIM is very difficult and only Vivec and Tiber Septim are known to
> have done it.

---

> The state of CHIM is being a part of the dream that has “woken up”. To
> achievers of CHIM, reality becomes a [lucid dream][0], and they can shape or
> change it to their whim. For example, Tiber Septim used CHIM to change the
> jungles of Cyrodiil into more habitable temperate grasslands.

---

> CHIM was first introduced in _Morrowind_’s _[36 Lessons of Vivec][1]_. It is
> referenced in _Oblivion_’s _[Mythic Dawn Commentaries][2]_ and in _Skyrim_
> through [Heimskr][3]’s recitation of _[From the Many-Headed Talos][4]_.

To explain that, one must first explain the nature of the Aurbis as a great
Dream: The Elder Scrolls universe is structured as a metaphorical dream inside
the mind of the Godhead, which is a concept borrowed from real life religions,
like the concept of Brahman of Hinduism, a being that encompasses all that
exists, with the observable universe being a part of this being. It’s important
to notice that this is not a dream, where the dreamer can wake up and halt the
dream, the word is used as a metaphor and as metaphor only, there is no start
nor there is an end of and in the Godhead, it’s just there, casually being
everything.

From this Godhead, all things come from, every world, every spirit, every
individual, every story, every possibility, _all_ is part of the Godhead, and
all _is_ the Godhead.

CHIM is the realization of that concept, that every single individual is not
actually an individual, but fragments of the Godhead, which means that everyone
is the same in essence, Molag Bal is the same as Mara is the same as Mai’q is
the same as the Adoring Fan. But not only this realization, also the denying of
it by stating your own individuality despite everything else telling you that
there is none. If you fail to do so, puff! Zero-Sum.

As simple as it may seem at first, it’s not. It’s one huge task to learn of the
structure of the Aurbis, of its inherent Dream-like nature, and not only learn
it, but also understand what exactly are you seeing. It’s more or less like
quantum physics, as in, no matter how much you think you understand it; you’re
not understanding it, and CHIM being the point where you actually figure the
whole thing out.

After you have come to that moment of enlightenment, it is said that you become
as if a lucid dreamer, able to change the world to your desires, which is why I
guess this is such a popular topic, being the ultimate “super-power” of the
Elder Scrolls universe (though I personally disagree that it gives you any rad
super powers).

For an entry-level understanding of what is CHIM, I think that’s all before you
get into the Crowley concepts and all those different and quite complex
interpretations of CHIM, so, if this is an introduction of CHIM to you, I
suggest you go read Vivec’s Sermons, C0DA and do some digging by yourselves so
you don’t rely solely on my faulty word for what comes next.

One of the concepts that is intrinsic to CHIM (at least according to Vivec) is
Love. Not love, *L*ove. To some, like /u/That2009WeirdEmoKid, this Love is a
sense of [understanding and compassion][5] towards all that share your shared
existence within the Godhead, a point where you can relate to every other
person, understanding their inner and primal motives, what moves them, what
makes them fearful, what makes them what they are, and that you are just the
same as them, it gets you to Love, and that Love gets you to the realization
which gets you to CHIM.

For /u/RottenDeadite, on the other hand, this Love is actually Love under Will,
which carries a ton of other significance. To Rotten, this concept is taken from
Aleister Crowley’s definition of Love from the Thelema, and you can read more
about this [here][6] and throughout his annotations of the Sermons in his [New
Whirling School][7], and, since I would end up copying and pasting his post to
be able to explain this, because I have just very basic understanding of
Crowley’s ideas, I’ll just suggest that if you want to learn more and learn
right, to read his excellent post.

For /u/MareloRyan Love is also Love under Will, though his definition of Will is
different from that of Crowley. For him, [Will is the assertion of one’s
self][8], it’s a strong personality, so to say. A strong Will, a strong sense of
self, is essential to the achieving of CHIM, essential to not be overwhelmed by
the comprehension, to know that you are not an individual and still insist that
your Will is your own. And Love, in this perspective, is “the fire in which Will
is forged”, which he says is the realization itself, the moment where the Will
is not only forged, but tested, and, if it fails, the individual is lost in this
Love, the whole of the Dream, zero-summing, if it remains strong, stubborn, that
is CHIM. The moment of realization is the moment when you become the “Eternal
I”, an individual who now “cannot help but continue to exist”. Marelo yet goes
in depth about the nature of the Wheel and the Tower, which I suggest you take a
look there, but it becomes more specific to other concepts, such as the
Enantiomorph and the whole Wheel business that would make this even longer than
it is already, with my bad skills at summing up and all, and that I don’t feel
like are necessary to get his idea of CHIM.

This is the Walking Way I’ll have the least to say about my own views, because
it’s all there already, the Eternal I, written in the fabric of the Aurbis, is
just what I define as the end-goal of the Walking Ways. As to the point I made
before about the super-powers: CHIM, as I see it, is the establishing of the
Will in the Aurbis, to become written there, irremovable, eternal, and that’s
it, it does come with a grand insight of what is the Aurbis, but that knowledge
by itself and CHIM by itself mean no more than that eternity inside the Aurbis,
the power that CHIMsters display, to me, come from other sources, like I
discussed in the Introduction, power is different from godhood, but the journey
to the enlightenment of CHIM usually leads the Walkers to great sources of
power, though not always (like the moth-priest who zero-summed, but had no
unnatural powers, even though he Walked the whole way to that moment of
insight), and I’d attribute Vivec’s power to the Heart of Lorkhan and Talos'
either to Tonal Manipulation (used in the same way as the Dwemer instead of as a
Walking Way) or to his special standing as Dragonborn, Shezzarine and
Magnus-child (personal head-canon), or any of the other shit he did during his
life to gather all manner of power, because he was sort of maniac after anything
that could make him even a bit more powerful, just for the sake of it.

## The Fusion of Souls

> Each of the aspects of the ALMSIVI then rose up together, combining as one,
> and showed the world the sixth path. Ayem took from the star its fire, Seht
> took from it its mystery, and Vehk took from it its feet, which had been
> constructed before the gift of Molag Bal and destroyed in the manner of truth:
> by a great hammering. When the soul of the Dwemer could walk no more, they
> were removed from this world.

Another obscure Walking Way! This is really rarely spoken about, and I found
just a few threads discussing this subject, so, if any of you know of any I have
missed, please let me know so I can complement this section!

This passage from the Sermons, the only “concrete” source for the Sixth Way,
implies that both ALMSIVI and the Dwemer have Walked it. And, taking the
“combining as one” part of the quote, coupled with the Dwemer’s supposed merging
as the skin of the Numidium, leads to the conclusion that this Way is the Fusion
of Souls, or Soul Stacking to some.

As I already discussed in the section about Tonal Manipulation, the Dwemer
manipulated their metal so that it would come closer to the concept of eternity,
moving it up subgradients towards the final one, the “Eternal I”, as Baladas
Demnevanni says in _Morrowind_, the Dwemer were discontent being any number of
subgradients under the eternal spirits, which are the divine, and this
manipulation of metal can be seen as one of their attempts at reverting the
subgradient process.

Another attempt at this subgradient jump was the Numidium, which is an amplified
Tonal Device as well as their Tower and receptacle. As Luagar Anulam states in
his [report][9] to Trebonius Artorius, the Dwemer understood that, as all in the
Aurbis came from a single source, a single individual, then the amalgamation of
its fragments would lead them closer to that original being and state, making
them go up in the subgradient scale, turning them into a collective Eternal I.
Even before they disappeared, becoming the skin of the Golem, their souls were
already bound together in the Numidium, they had already Walked the Sixth, they
had already reached the point of becoming an eternal spirit, but they wanted
more, they wanted all to join their collective so they could return to the
original point of the Godhead, where nothing was. But that is already beside the
point.

Well, the Tribunal eventually understood what the Dwemer had done, and they did
the same, becoming ALMSIVI proper, the conjunction of the three Tribunes, adding
one more to the count of Walking Ways they Walked. And the same can be said of
Tiber Septim that, in the use of the Numidium, as if learning from the Dwemer
themselves, supposedly joined the souls of Tiber, Zurin and Wulfharth into one,
who is Talos.

You may have noticed that these two last examples were composed of the three
parties of an Enantiomorphic Event, a Warrior, a Thief and a Mage, and so
/u/MareloRyan has [classified][10] the Enantiomorph as a form of Soul Fusion in
his model of the Godhead, like Dracochrysalis to the Prolix Tower.

## Conclusion

So, that was it! My collection of the many of the interpretations of the Walking
Ways I could find, I sincerely hope you all enjoyed it, because I sure as hell
had a good time doing all this research and writing!

If you know of any other interesting thread or comment concerning the Walking
Ways that I may have missed, please, don’t hesitate to direct me to them! I
would very much like this to be as complete and comprehensive as possible, and
that means that everything here is subject to change and later revisions, all
constructive criticism is more than welcome and I will very gladly change
anything I might have done wrong, missed or just include new interesting points
of view!

[0]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucid_dream
[1]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/36-lessons-vivec
[2]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/mythic-dawn-commentaries-vol-3
[3]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Heimskr
[4]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/many-headed-talos
[5]: ./4bjaef
[6]: ./18gt8w
[7]: https://www.newwhirlingschool.com/
[8]: ./24wmh2
[9]: https://www.imperial-library.info/content/final-report-trebonius
[10]: ./1usuwl
