---
series: Brynjar’s Compendium of the Six Walking Ways
part: 1
title: Introduction
reddit: 4n8i1y
author: BrynjarIsenbana
date: 2016-06-09T01:14:04Z
---

Heyo scholars of /r/teslore! I have noticed a while ago that there is not a
comprehensive collection or "guide" of sorts for the Six Walking Ways, nothing
comprehending all of them and trying to give an explanation (even if basic) or
gathering what we know and what we theorise upon each one (and the only ones I
believe we had before have been deleted), I'm not trying to bring a 100% certain
list or guide or definitive interpretation of any of the Ways, this is merely me
gathering all the quotes, information and threads we have (read it as: "that I
could find") on each one and trying to come up with a comprehensive explanation
of each, but it is all up to questioning, debating, plain denying and refusing,
for I may indeed be way off and completely wrong about any and all of them (as
well as most probably biased in all of them), so any discussion, additions and
corrections are more than welcome!

---

> **Six are the formulas to heaven by violence**

Six Ways to Walk and reach the final subgradient of all AE, the ultimate state
of a being, a spirit written in the fabric of the Aurbis, immortal, permanent,
above happenstance.

The Six Walking Ways are as follows (_italics_ are for names I came up with):

1. The Prolix Tower or _Euhemerism_

2. The Psijic Endeavour or The Path of Veloth

3. _Tonal Manipulation_ or _Story Rewriting_

4. The Steps of the Dead or _The Fission of Souls_

5. The Love or The Royalty

6. The Fusion of Souls or Soul Stacking

---

# An Introduction

Before I start discussing each of the Walking Ways, I believe I must first
address my own vision of what is a god in the Aurbis, not because I want
everyone to accept it, but because it becomes important to proper comprehend
what I will be talking about when I speak of my own explanations for each of the
Ways, and, again, this is not me trying to impose an absolute on what is or not
a god, just my own view relevant only to my own view of the Walking Ways, and it
will by no means impact the explanations when using someone else's vision, so
this Introduction is perfectly skippable if you want!

Now, when we discuss gods in Elder Scrolls, I believe we end up mixing up terms
because of semantics. One of the terms used to refer to gods in Ehlnofex is Ada,
and it's usually translated directly as "god", but Et'Ada is translated as
"original _spirits_", instead of "original gods", so, maybe what we're talking
about in these cases are not gods per se, instead, we're talking about special
spirits, eternal ones, in my interpretation.

To me, the concept of Ada is that of an eternal spirit, one that, no matter
what, will stay part of the narrative of the Aurbis, in one way or another, they
cannot be permanently killed, and if they are, they come back in some way later
on (I'm looking at you Lorkhan). If the Aurbis is a big narrative, each of the
Ada, of these eternal spirits, are major characters, in which absence the
Narrative doesn't make sense anymore, essential parts of said Narrative. And I
believe this is the goal of each of the six Walking Ways, to be made eternal, an
inseparable part of the Aurbis, and this is what I believe is a god and what
people refer to as gods in most discussions around here.

To better exemplify it, gods as we call them can be divided into three
categories in this setting:

1. Gods in eternality, the Ada, beings that are or became an intrinsic part of
   the Aurbis, who may not be worshipped by any cult as gods or have no power to
   speak of and yet are what they are, eternal. Examples being: the Aedra, the
   Daedra, the Earth-Bones and (according to me) all who Walked any of the Ways
   and individuals like Pelinal or Morihaus.

2. Gods of worship, in other words, a being that is worshipped as a god, for
   whatever reason there might be for such worship, but this does not make the
   god any more powerful or eternal. Examples being: Cuhlecain, the Emperor
   Zero, worshipped by the Cult of Emperor Zero, or one of the aspects of
   ALMSIVI's godhood, as well as the Daedric Princes and the Aedra.

3. Gods in power, which isn't a form of godhood per se, but rather a confusion
   between what would be a god in the Aurbis (eternal spirit) with what gods are
   considered to be in the real world: beings with exceptional power. In the
   Aurbis, power is unrelated to godhood, you can be a weak god or a very
   powerful mortal, and there are many cases in which a mortal's power was able
   to surpass a god's power. Power, according to my interpretation of
   /u/MareloRyan's musings
   [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/2jtcd5/souls_and_stars/), is
   that the power of a being is the size of their Animus, of their inner star
   (and, then, the divinity he mentions there would fall under this third case),
   and it can be increased by various means. Examples being: (maybe) Dyvaith
   Fyr, who, despite not being a god in anyone's religion (except maybe some
   very loving fanbase), is extremely powerful, to the point he could probably
   face a Daedric Prince, a god by #1 and #2 and come out victorious. Again,
   more than a form of godhood, I believe this is merely a misconception that
   godhood equals to power in the Aurbis. I believe these are two completely
   separate concepts that, in some cases, may come together, but are not
   intermingled or connected.

---

As it wouldn't fit in a single post, and to divide it in two would make each of
the two parts excruciatingly long, I have divided it in four parts, including
this Introduction.

[Part II: Prolix Tower and the Psijic Endeavour](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/4n8i3y/brynjars_compendium_of_the_six_walking_ways_part/)

[Part III: Tonal Manipulation and the Fission of Souls](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/4n8i4m/brynjars_compendium_of_the_six_walking_ways_part/)

[Part IV: Love, the Fusion of Souls and Conclusion](https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/4n8i5v/brynjars_compendium_of_the_six_walking_ways_part/)
