---
title: The Secrets of the Ancients
subtitle: Alteration
reddit: 5438ue
author: MorrowindFan
date: 2016-09-23T05:21:02Z
---

Not much is known about the ancient mages, but we do have some of their works.
We know that one of the most well known alteration spells, and certainly one of
the most useful, was created by a man named Ondusi.

While understandable that a young mage exploring alteration would be curious
about Ondusi, his time would be much better spent understanding applications and
theory of our craft. However, in an attempt to put minds to rest, I have
compiled all present knowledge about Ondusi.

Ondusi is suspected to man of Dunmeri descent, but since the name matches no
known patterns, nothing concrete has been proven. The first known instance of
Ondusi’s opening spell was discovered in an unnamed ancestral tomb on
Vvardenfell, during the second century of the first era. However, during the
Nordic invasion of Morrowind, all knowledge of the spell seems to disappear. It
then resurfaces in the mid fifth century in Telvanni writings. The spell does
not seem to be widespread until the third century of the second era, when the
Imperial Mages Guild was formed and spread across Tamriel. Rather than teaching
the spell to their inferiors, the Telvanni elite had kept the knowledge of the
spell a closely guarded secret, the reason for this unknown to any alive today.

The spell is then seen in tomes across Tamriel, being taught to journeyman mages
from High Rock to Black Marsh. At this time, the Mages Guild is conducting
research into more efficient opening spells, and spells with greater potential.

It has been postulated by historians that the spell was a bit of a joke, created
by a Telvanni spellwright and given to his magister. This view, however, is seen
as unfashionable among the greater scholarly community, as there is little to no
evidence supporting it.

—Galas Rothen, Magister
