---
title: On Fire And Faith
reddit: 5946cq
author: docclox
date: 2016-10-24T12:15:12Z
---

I had occasion to look at [_Fire and Faith_][0] recently. I had a few thoughts.

> I made inquiry as to the state of enlightenment among the people he spoke for.
> He answered that with respect to the theories of Kagrenac, there was but one
> scholar near who could guide the people through the maze that leads to true
> misunderstanding.

I’m struck by “true misunderstanding”. “Misunderstanding” is a notion that crops
up repeatedly in connection with the Dwemer. We see the same idea in Hanging
Gardens, for instance:

> “Put down your ardent cutting-globes, Nbthld. Your Aldmeris has the correct
> words, but they cannot be properly misinterpreted.”

So that makes me wonder if the important words here are not so much
“misunderstand” and “misinterpret” as “proper” and “true”. As if there were a
great many ways to misunderstand the universe, but only one of them correct.
Although, that does raise the question of “correct for what purpose?”.

Of course, we know that changing the way you view the Aurbis can drastically
change your relationship with it. The obvious examples are CHIM and Zero-Sum.
Maybe Kagrenac’s teachings were founded on a similar insight. Only, I’m not sure
“insight” is the correct word in this case. Misunderstanding though … it seems
to suggest a wilful misconstruing of the evidence, like a trial lawyer who uses
a poorly worded law to argue the opposite of the law’s intention. The Dwemer
knew what the world was _supposed_ to mean, but they deliberately chose to
misunderstand that, and to misunderstand it in a certain way. Hence the “maze
that leads to true misunderstanding”. You’re not supposed to be able to consider
the world in this way, and there are lots of false misunderstandings placed
along the way and getting to the correct wrong view of the universe takes time
and study.

No wonder the Dwemer seemed so strange.

> … studying Kagrenac’s words and giving consideration to their place in the
> life to come

Now there’s a recurring theme. The Mythic Dawn and the Thalmor also wanted to
bring about a new world.

> and where neither planar division nor the numeration of amnesia nor any other
> thing of utility more valued than the understanding of the self and its
> relationship to the Heart.

Two interesting contradiction of terms here. You can’t count the number of times
you’ve forgotten everything, and as a mathematical concept, you can’t divide a
plane. It’s infinite in two dimensions and of zero size in all the others. We
could interpret this as talking about how the Plane(t)s are organized and the
number of creational subgradients of any given thing … but it would be nice to
think that these impossibilities are essential to True Misunderstanding and that
is why the Dwemer find them to be things of utility.

And, as a side note:

> I was gracious enough to receive this as a high compliment, and, removing my
> helm, I thanked him and departed with an infinity of bows.

Who the hell was Nchunak anyway? How could he take that as complimentary to
himself? I could cope with the “infinity of bows” as a poetic way of describing
exaggerated politeness and respect, perhaps. But taking the Dwemer philosophy as
being complimentary to himself might suggest that Nchunak was some sort of
godlike figure. Could it be Lorkhan, or one of his shezarines perhaps? I can
imagine how Lorkhan might have approved of Kagrenac’s teachings, especially
given how important Numidium was going to be in his return to formal divinity…

No particular conclusions, just some odd thoughts which I thought I’d share.

[0]: https://www.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Nchunak%27s_Fire_and_Faith
