---
title: Last Speech of the Witch-Queen
reddit: 59792s
author: imgaharambe
date: 2016-10-24T21:37:31Z
---

> The following is a recently recovered transcript of the final recorded speech
> by Jsashe, the infamous ‘Witch-Queen of Whiterun’ who ruled the Hold in the
> late 3^rd^ Era. Imperial Historians usually date the end of her reign to
> coincide with the Oblivion Crisis; however, this source has been reliably
> dated to the early 4^th^ Era.
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

Harken, brothers and sisters of the north, sons and daughters of Shor! I, Jsashe
Fox-Sworn, stand before you today, as Jarl by right of birth, having served
Whiterun Hold as my father before me, and his brother before him. I stand before
you as Jarl by right of honour, having led our people most valiantly in the
Snowhawk War. I stand before you as Jarl by right of Divine Will, chosen by our
Gods, in the way of our people, since the Ashen Hart rejected the Alessian
Heresies. Jhunal’s riddles I passed, and I weathered the fury of Kyne atop
Snow-Throat for three days and nights. My love for you, dearest citizens, over
whom I have ruled these past 20 years, earned me the blessings of Mara, and our
soldiers' mercy and might in the conquest of Snowhawk granted me the smiles of
the brothers Stuhn and Tsun. Our temple, brothers and sisters, runs red with the
blood of our sacrifices to Our Enemies Three, and my lifelong worship to Shor
has blessed our land with our Lord’s favour. But hear this, children of Skyrim;
our way, the old way, the way of Ysgramor, is dying.

Already the Empire brands me Heretic, already Ocato the Elf turns his venomous
gaze northward. For our people’s honour, love and worship of Shor, the Cyrodiils
brand me Witch-Queen, brand me Priestess of Lorkhan, the elves' pale imitation
of the Fallen God and His Glory. Our brothers in Bruma spread whispers of
betrayal, rumours that the Potentate sends his dirty Legions to our walls to
bury us and our true worship; to stifle the last fires of the Old Gods. See,
already, how the Nordic ways have fallen! Solitude, those spineless dogs, has
outlawed our ways, worshipping instead those Milk-Drinker Gods from the Imperial
Province, venerating the Time Dragon instead of cowering from His Great and
Terrible wrath. The other Holds follow suit, forgetting Kyne for Kynareth, and
Stuhn for Stendarr. Even Windhelm wavers, close to forgetting Shor himself. O,
how far our once proud and devout land has fallen!

When Ocato’s Inquisition arrives, as the Alessians did before them, we shall
stand our ground. When the Cyrodiils demand we worship their false gods, we will
not obey. When our own walls come falling down upon our very bodies, we will not
die, but be raised to Sovngarde by Shor himself!

(The rest of the speech was drowned out by the rapturous applause from the
citizens in attendance.)
