---
title: The Savior of Hammerfell
subtitle: The Truth about Yokeda Sayf at-Noor
reddit: 61t564
author: Jimeee
date: 2017-03-27T16:21:10Z
---

> This journal was recovered from the charred corpse of the blasphemer Yokeda
> Sayf at-Noor, the so-called savior of Hammerfell in our war against the
> Aldmeri Dominion. How I came to possess this journal is unimportant, but know
> that its contents are sufficient to engulf our people into yet another civil
> war.
>
> Verily, the entire province believes that Yokeda Sayf was anointed by the
> HoonDing near the end of the Great War and Made Way for our people.
> Culminating at the Battle of Hegathe in 4E 180, history has deemed he was
> martyred as he drove the elves from our shores. While his martial exploits are
> undeniable, my people are blind as to how this vile heretic obtained his
> power. He was not the HoonDing.
>
> I am sworn to silence… I dare not speak for the sake of Hammerfell and her
> people. The peace between the Crowns and Forebear cannot be risked, wherefore
> I take this accursed knowledge to my grave. I hereby entomb this journal
> within the deepest chambers of Impervious Vault. Perhaps once our nation and
> people are ready, the truth can be revealed.
>
> —Archivist Razul, Sentinel. 4E 189
{:tag="aside" .foreword}

## 21st Rain’s Hand, 4E 180

The war continues. It has been five years since the coward surrendered to the
Dominion. Five years since the traitor attempted to cede the south to these
infidels… It’s because of Mede we are spread too thin, and I know not how long
we can last.

We received word of Dominion scouts spotted around Craglorn. Curious they are so
far east… possibly survivors who deserted after Decianus re-took Skaven? We
can’t afford to take risks. We have been ordered to investigate and deal with
the threat while Grandee Zaheer’s men continue on the western front.

## 5th Second Seed, 4E 180

We arrived in Craglon four days ago and set camp near Belkarth. The reports were
true. Dominion troops fled into the wastes after Skaven, and have been taking
shelter in some of the nearby crypts and ruins. Vile elves… have they no respect
for even the dead? Captain Azah has ordered my brigade to investigate a ruin
known locally as the "Seeker’s Archive"… An odd name for a Yokudan ruin…
According to the locals its been sealed off since the Second Era. Finding entry
will prove difficult. We leave at daybreak.

## 6th Second Seed, 4E 180

Dunerippers! They’re all dead. We were searching for an entrance into the
Archive… just as we broke through the rubble they appeared. We must have
uncovered an entire nest of the repulsive beasts when digging. We tried to fight
but it was no good…… O Tu’whacca… forgive me for I am unable to perform the
consecration rites… I beg thee to safely guide their souls to the Far Shores…

## 7th Second Seed, 4E 180

I now understand why this place is called the Seeker’s Archive. It’s a wondrous
library, full of ancient Yokudan tomes and scrolls! After the attack I took
refuge in a small cave and began hearing faint whispers behind the walls
themselves. I investigated further and somehow the wall itself gave way before
me and revealed this archive. What lost knowledge from our forefathers does this
archive hold? How could such a place have been forgotten for so long?…

…the whispers… they are louder now… _"Come to me, you who seek."_

## 8th Second Seed, 4E 180

The demon… he spoke to me. He calls himself Hermaeus Mora… O Gods! What have I
done. To consort with Deadra - a Prince no less - is a grievous sin. I have
dishonoured myself… yet… his offer… I am ashamed to say it intrigues me. It
happened last night. I followed his voice until it led me to a break in the
floor. Beneath I discovered a grotesque shrine to the Demon of Knowledge
himself. I should have fled, but his enthralling words forbid me to do so.

_"You seek to rid your lands of invaders, do you not?"_ he asked. _"Only I can
help you. Your people are weak and have forgotten the ways of the Hel Ansei. I,
Hermaeus Mora, can bestow this knowledge unto you, for a price. Do you wish to
feel the power of the Shehai Shen She Ru?"_

Shehai Shen She Ru?! The Shehai has not been seen in Hammerfell for centuries.
Had I but a fraction of its fabled power… by Onsi’s blade, I could drive the
elves from this land myself. I asked the demon what he sought and his reply
continues to baffle me. All he seeks is Captain Azah’s old amulet! For the power
to change history… this demon asks only for the worthless heirloom of my
commander… I will return to the camp tonight. I am unsure how to proceed. May
Ruptga guide me.

## 9th Second Seed, 4E 180

I didn’t mean to kill him. Truly I didn’t. After I returned to camp with the
dire news of my men, Captain Azah ordered a full debriefing in the morning. I
had made by decision. It was just an amulet after all… As my comrades retired, I
crept into the captain’s tent with sole intention of taking only his amulet. He
awoke and he drew his dagger just as I slipped it off his neck. I had no choice.
There was no turning back. He wouldn’t understand. Under the cover of darkness I
disposed of his corpse and fled the camp. The amulet… it looks ancient… engraved
with runes. Yokudan no doubt. Why would the demon seek this?

## 10th Second Seed, 4E 180

The Daedra was true to his word. After I delivered the amulet to him, he
rewarded me an ancient Memory Stone, just like the ones from legend. I touched
the stone, and through it he blessed unto me the knowledge of the ancient Ansei.
I stood before him and called forth the Shehai with almost no effort. He was
pleased and promised to impart greater knowledge in the Way of the Sword if I
pledged my undying allegiance to him. When I returned to the camp, my comrades
fell to their knees when they saw the radiant blade.

The Shehai… its much more than a just weapon. Its the long-lost birthright of
all Redguards. I can teach this power to my countrymen. With it, we can defeat
the Dominion and return our people to the Old Ways.

## 23th Frostfall, 4E 180

Much has occurred since I last wrote in this journal. The power of the Shehai is
overwhelming. In the numerous battles we have fought since I acquired this
power, I emerge completely unscathed… and the bodies of countless elves lie at
my feet. The Shehai’s very presence compels men to follow my command, and the
Song of the Blade rallies a fighting spirit in them to envy the Ra Gada
themselves. The tides are turning…

Today I liberated Taneth from the wretched elves… the men… they have began
calling me the HoonDing. Ha! If only they knew the gods forsook our people in
our greatest hour of need. And it was a Deadra who granted us salvation! My lord
has taught me much through the Memory Stone. Ancient techniques that were lost
to history. The Duptra-Satak, Ugo-no-toktra and Rambu-ra. I must admit, using my
left hand to wield the blade feels… wrong… but I’m drawn intensely to this
unfamiliar style and the power it holds.

The illusions I had of teaching this power to my brothers is gone. I won’t. Only
I was entrusted with this knowledge. It’s too dangerous for common men to wield.
No. It remains mine.

## 25th Frostfall, 4E 180

My work in Taneth is done. Tomorrow we leave for Sentinel. I will meet with the
High King and name myself Yokeda. In the presence of my Shehai, he and the
Grandees will have no choice but to pledge their loyalty. The armies of
Hammerfell will rally to my call once they hear the "HoonDing" has risen from
among them. Only I can lead them to victory against the elves.

## 17th Sun’s Dusk, 4E 180

On the eve of battle I held my Memory Stone and sought my lord’s counsel once
more. In his infinite grace, he revealed unto me another powerful technique: The
Kotu-Ugakta or "Furious Edge". Its another left-handed stroke, which is the hand
I now use exclusively. I look forward to burning alive the treacherous elves in
tomorrow’s battle.

He also agreed to teach me yet another sword stroke if I recover an ancient
cartulary entombed in Khefrem after tomorrow’s battle. He called it
"Pankratosword"… the word is unknown to me… and curiously he refused to reveal
its meaning. Dare I say… he seemed hesitant? Bah… it matters not - I will find
this cartulary as my master wills it.

## 18th Sun’s Dusk, 4E 180

Today is the 18th… Hel Anseilak. A fitting day as we descend upon Hegathe to
drive the infidels from our land. It will be a glorious battle! The gods
themselves couldn’t stay my hand on this day. The landfall of our forefather’s
will run red with elven blood once more! Once the Dominion has been pushed into
the Abacean, I will learn the secrets of the Pankratosword. Only then will
Emperor Mede will answer for his treachery!
