---
title: A Prayer to Sheogorath
reddit: 6673to
author: Lagarto_Azul
date: 2017-04-19T01:15:30Z
---

> _I see a pile of dirt. I see a crab!_ **_FORNICATION!_** _Oh Lordy Lord of
> Lordiness, why must you lord me so lordly?! Did I forget to clean the Tirdas?
> Is my pillow soft enough? I am a Dwemer as big as a Giant! Kill me! Kill me!_
> **_Kill me!!_**

<!-- -->

> _Oh, there once was a hero named Ragnar the Blue who came riding from a puddle
> of vampire mush filled with teeth and bees and carriages and clouds and bricks
> and venison. He tastes like Summer._

<!-- -->

> _Hhahreeigh. The sun smells like lavander, and a Redguard lady’s kiss, and_
> **_THE BLOOD OF NEFARIOUS SLAVES DRIPPING FROM THE TIP OF A LASH._** _Will I
> ever be free? Why do people stop talking to me once I’m about to make a
> point?... You! Yes, you! I need your help! Yes, your help and no one else’s!
> This of the most dire importance. What? Why, you maggot. So rude! To assume I
> have a problem just because I cry for help. Is that how you treat your
> subjects?! Do you act this condescendingly if a mushroom stubs its toe and
> goes to war with Akavir over it? Don’t change the subject. You are a rotten
> individual. Why are you still pestering me?! I have businesses of the highest
> importance to atend to and you are wasting my time. Thank you._

<!-- -->

> _Are you tired yet? I’ll have you know there are no sweeteners in the clouds.
> Believe me! There are over 768 flavors in the sky, all of them bad! Just like
> me! My father! My father! What is the point anymore? People die and nothing
> happens. 43._

<!-- -->

> _Put a handful of pollen in my mouth. Thank you. I can sleep now._

---

> Ho ho ho, that was lovely, Haskill! Blimey, who was he talking to?

<!-- -->

> No one, my lord. The man was alone. He has not been seen by another mortal in
over five years.

<!-- -->

> Oh, what’s five years? I’m sure he’ll be fine. Now read me that one about dying
on foreign soil and strangers wearing familiar faces. That one always makes me
giggle!
