---
series: A Murder in Morrowind
part: 1
title: A Morrowind Murder Mystery
reddit: 6l1z0c
author: TheBravestarr
date: 2017-07-03T19:12:16Z
---

## Prologue

A storm was coming. The sky above Balmora was a pale grey, the color of a fish’s
belly. Fish. Sweet-Water shook his frills at the thought. How long had it been
since he had fish? About a month, he decided and the decision was made. Fish. He
would have fish tonight.

The sky above Balmora was growing dim with light, clouds beginning to darken as
night fell. Sweet-Water stepped through the town gates, briefly looking up at
the towering Stilt-Strider that stood beside it. Its owner, the Stilt-Rider,
patted its carapace with a thick cloth; he rubbed it down removing the ash dust
and grime that coated its shell.

Ash dust.

Sweet-Water blinked twice as the grit flew in his eyes. Red Mountain was active
today. He could see it on the horizon to the northeast, spewing its noxious
fumes into the sky, a fiery eye against the growing backdrop of the night. The
air was thick with resinous smoke.

Of course, every day in Vvardenfell was dust and ash filled; it was so thick and
prevalent that breathing through your mouth would burn your tongue and gum it up
with a muddy combination of saliva and dirt. That was one thing he hadn’t
expected. The dust. He wouldn’t miss the feeling of that grating powder in his
under britches once he got back to Black Marsh.

Moonmoth Fort was nearly complete. He and the others like him, workers
contracted from all of Tamriel, had worked at a feverish pace for months to
complete the Empire’s latest foothold in the province of Morrowind. Vvardenfell
had been their target for the past half-century, the last backwards island that
had so far gone beneath the Empire’s notice.

It had felt good to work for a change. Black Marsh was unforgiving and work
there was getting scarce. Masonry tended to be an untenable job in the swamps of
his homeland, whose sticky quagmires could threaten to sink the foundations of
any building as heavy as stone. But alas, his father had been a stonemason, and
his father, and so on. So as his father was, so was Sweet-Water.

His thoughts turned back to Sheeva and the hatchlings. They had made a good
brood, seven in all, she had written. He had left just when the eggs were lain
beneath the roots of the Home Hist, and he had hoped they’d have finished with
the fort by the day of hatching.

It seemed fate had decided against this homecoming and she had said they had
hatched fine and healthy. He looked forward to meeting them, and showing them
the ways of the marsh. Fishing, hunting,frog spearing, and game trapping.And
masonry, Hist willing.

He shook his head to remove the thoughts. Now he only thought of fish. His purse
was heavy with coin, Imperial Septims, commonly accepted at most Balmora
establishments. He knew just the vendor; she had a little shack sat at the far
end of town, just by the river. The lady there, a Dunmer lady of good standing,
would often sell him fish at a reduced price. She was sympathetic to the
Argonian slave crisis in Morrowind and she’d make it well known that she would
help any Argonian who asked for it.

The sky was quickly turning a dark violet, almost black. The first stars peeked
through the breaks in the clouds. Sweet-Water smiled when he saw the upper edge
of the Thief. He made the sign that all those born under the Thief knew and
thanked the Hist for his good fortune. A good job with money in his pockets and
more on the way home to Black Marsh. Another month or so and the fort would be
complete and he could go back to his sweet Sheeva and his children.

He stepped onto the main thoroughfare of Balmora, aside the great river Odai. In
the distance he heard a Nordic bard singing a bawdy tune of a man and his lust
for a young river maiden. Dunmer children scampered home up stairways as their
parents called out to them in raspy voices.

The nightlife was in full swing on the streets of Balmora. Even at this hour,
the sweet smell of freshly caught fish, ripe fruits and vegetables, and even the
slight stink of waste filled his nostrils. The din of the street traffic grew
thick as the sky thundered above with a distant rumbling as the storm drew
closer.

The night drew itself like a dark shroud and similar to a swarm of torch bugs,
lanterns and torches lifted themselves above the heads of those that walked the
streets.

Sweet-Water himself took a small portable lamp out of his pack and lit the wick
of the candle inside with his last match. He shook the match out and threw the
stub into the river. He lifted the lamp overhead to cast his light and breathed
deep of the rich air that was Balmora’s own.

Fish. He was looking forward to the fish.

He smiled as he caught a glimpse of the fish monger, Ranis, who hocked her wares
with the best of them. She called out in a loud bellowing voice that welled from
her diaphragm. Tight muscular arms, sinewy with the corded muscle of a lifelong
fisherman, waved a group of scaled and gutted fish tied together with cord. She
smiled when she saw him and waved him over.

Sweet-Water smiled, or as best he could as an Argonian, and forced his way
through the thick crowd. Bodies pressed closed together pulsating heat and
stink, the smell of hundreds of seldom washed bodies filled his nostrils. He
basked in the flow of the city, swept up by the current of life that swelled
through the city like blood through veins.

Perhaps it was this thought that grabbed his attention; He passed a nearby alley
and through the stink of the Dunmer folk he smelled something that he had not
smelled in a while. Through the smell of sweat, dust, ash, and fish came a
coppery smell that brought him back to his days in Black Marsh; a smell that
filled his mouth with the familiar taste of iron and salt.

That’s when a scream pierced the roar of the crowd and Sweet-Water’s head
swiveled to his left, towards the darkened alley where the dying light of day
did not touch. The entire street fell silent and all eyes fell on the darkened
alleyway.

Sweet-Water could feel those same eyes bore into his back and he felt his
muscles tighten with fear and apprehension. Out of the hundreds of people on
that street, he was by far the closest. He was reluctant to go forward, to even
see what he already knew was there.

With one last longing look to Ranis and to the fish he had meant to buy, he
turned again to that black alley and tentatively put one foot before the other.

Light filled the small alleyway and Sweet-Water blinked as his eyes rested on
the grisly scene. It was horrifying. In all his life he had never taken a
person’s life, Argonian or otherwise. For a person who hunted he had thought
himself well acquainted with blood and death. What he saw before him was unlike
anything he had seen.

Arterial blood sprayed the near wall in a horrible mockery of graffiti, droplets
spread out to form a disturbing image of a fountain from hell itself. A body
twitched slightly in the glow of his lantern as he lifted it high to illuminate
the alleyway.

The alleyway was a one way only, the far end of it, opposite of him, terminated
into the side of a nearby building. Besides himself and the crowd that pressed
just outside the orange glow of his lantern, no one but he and the dying man
remained.

He felt himself grow sick as he watched the dying spasms of a man, now known to
be either Cyrodillic or Breton. Perhaps Nord, but he could never tell.

The man’s eyes rolled in his head and his mouth made useless gasping motions; he
noiselessly gasped for air with lungs that refused to breathe. With a shuddering
jerk the man arched on his back and with a gurgling moan he exhausted the end of
his life.

Sweet-Water felt the blood drain from his face and he was overcome with
crippling, paralyzing fear. The only thought in his mind was to get out of there
and fast.His legs ached and trembled and with a surge of will he stumbled out
into the crowd, screaming bloodily at everyone and no one.

“Murder! Murder!”

The sky was black with clouds rumbling in the sky; teeming rain. A storm was
coming.
