---
title: Interview with an Ash Dragon
reddit: 712kxt
author: slovakiin
date: 2017-09-19T12:19:45Z
pseudonym: Lleris Arvano, Adventurer and Traveling Scholar
---

_4E 189_

In all my decades spent exploring the devastated Ashlands of Vvardenfell, I have
never had an encounter as interesting as the one I describe in this article.
When exploring a seemingly uninhabited cave system, I was suddenly attacked by
two Nords from the shadows. With extreme luck, I managed to defeat both of them
and walk out with only minor wounds. The presence of these two indicated that
there may be valuables hidden in the caves, so I advanced deeper inside.

I certainly didn’t expect what I’ve found. When I illuminated a large cavern, I
discovered a large lizard. At first, I didn’t know what it was. My first thought
was an overgrown cliff racer, but that was disproven when it spoke to me.

“Have you killed my cultists, fahliil?”

I will remember his words till the day I die. The voice was booming, it rumbled
my bones and sent shivers down my spine. Even in my startled state, I managed to
make the association. Nords, “cultists” and a large talking lizard. This is a
dragon.

I don’t remember what I replied, but I slowly backed away, intending to leave
this cave system, but the beast didn’t let me. It threw me off my feet with its
tail.

“You bested my cultists, and now you run from me? Why are you here if you do not
intend to kill me, joor?”

I said to him that I am just an adventurer and that I stumbled upon this cave by
accident, while traveling. The dragon seemed to get an interest in my “travels”.
As he had me pinned down with his tail, he interviewed _me_. He asked about the
state of the world, the religions and powers present in Tamriel, and recent
events. He was very interested in what happened to the Blades, and seemed to be
extatic when he heard about their demise. On the other hand, he looked
disappointed when I mentioned that the Nords had almost completely abandoned the
Nordic gods for the Imperial Divines. The two cultists he had guarding his cave
weren’t as well-traveled and well-read as me, or at least that’s what I assumed.

After that, he just let me go. I was surpised too! Apparently, he respected my
fighting prowess enough to consider me worthy of life. I could have just left
that cave, but that wouldn’t be me. I respectfully asked him if I could
interview him in turn. I said that I wouldn’t mention the location of his cave,
and describe him as a powerful being worthy of respect (which I sincerely
believe). To another surpirse, he agreed. I suspect that eternity can get really
boring if you have no one to talk to.

I prepared my papers and my writing equipment, lit up a magelight and got to
work.

---

**What is your name?**

_Ahbiilok. You would translate it “Hunter-Blue-Sky”. I got this name when I
hunted okaaronne up in the skies of Keizaal. You will nott see blue skies over
this land, though. Maybe I should rename myself._

**Why did you choose to live in Morrowind?**

_I lived in Keizaal for many centuries after the war with the Bronne. It was not
that hard to stay away from dragon hunters, or just kill them. But then, these
prakem-joriin came and started hunting us down. We all had to leave. There
should still be dov in Taazokaan, but not in Keizaal. I know of some. My
cultists told me a story of one who got killed while serving a dovahkiin.
Pathetic._

**How did you avoid death for so long?**

_(Laughs.) I did not. I died once, or at least in mortal terms. In the war with
Bronne, I was defeated by a group of Tongues. They set a trap for me. Tahrodiis
joorre! They saw how our lord Alduin resurrected dragons before. So, to avoid my
resurrection, they burned my body in a pyre until I was only ash. But Alduin
came, and resurrected me anyway. The Tongues could see me reform from ash into
an even more terrifying version of myself, and ran for their lives. I hunted
down each and every one of them._

_Since then, I have not died. When the Dragonguard came to Keizaal, I fought
them off multiple times. I hid in mountains in the south. They found me again.
So I fled here. Those prakemme did not dare to cross the border. Your mortal
politics always amuse me._

**How long did you live in Morrowind? Do you like it here?**

_I do not bother to count years, but I would say about fifteen centuries. I
lived in what you call the Ashlands this entire time. Not many of you fahliille
snooping around. Only some hunters. I have shown myself to them occasionally,
and once, they called me a “cliff racer”. I later found out what animal they
meant. I burned their village. Krosis. It was impulsive._

_I do not like the cliff racers. They are not dangerous to me as predators, but
it is hard to fly through their swarms. They are annoying._

_Most dov would not like the ash everywhere. I do not mind it, though. I used to
be ash when the Bronne burned me. Since then, I felt a strange connection to
ash. I learned how to manipulate it. Not all ash storms in this area came from
the nisaad-rah in the volcano. Some were mine. I flied through them when I did
not want to be seen._

**Were you affected by the Red Year?**

_Do you mean the eruption? I left for Veysenor for a few years, but then I got
back. It did not get enough ash for my taste. I feel at home here, in the
Ashlands. After the eruption, even more land turned into ash, and that is better
for me. I am even harder to find._

**How did you get your cultists?**

_They said they escaped slavery from kiibam lahzey and hid in my cave. I
revealed myself to them, and killed their pursuers. Then, I told them stories of
the age before the war between the dov and the Bronne, and how men lived in
harmony under the rule of the dov. They chose me over the fahliil slavers._

**Do you plan to reveal yourself to more people?**

_No. Even if Alduin himself came back from beyond time and called me to war, I
would stay here in my bed of ash._

With that, we said our goodbyes.

**So, Ahbiilok, thank you for your time.**

_My pleasure. Send some Bronne my way, if you meet any. Cultists are fun.
(Laughs.)_

---

It took me months to find correct translations of the “dovahzul” words Ahbiilok
used. Most of this is still conjecture, so take it with a grain of salt.

> _fahliil_{:tag="dt"} _elf_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _joor_{:tag="dt"} _mortal_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _okaaronne (sg. okaaron)_{:tag="dt"} _whales_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _Keizaal_{:tag="dt"} _Skyrim_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _Bronne (sg. Bron)_{:tag="dt"} _Nords_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _prakem-joriin_{:tag="dt"} _snake people (?)_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _dov (sg. dovah)_{:tag="dt"} _dragons_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _Taazokaan_{:tag="dt"} _Tamriel_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _dovahkiin_{:tag="dt"} _dragonborn_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _tahrodiis_{:tag="dt"} _(?)_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _krosis_{:tag="dt"} _apologies_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _nisaad-rah_{:tag="dt"} _fake (false ?) god, (Dagoth Ur ?)_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _Veysenor_{:tag="dt"} _cut-off land (Solstheim ?)_{:tag="dd"}
>
> _kiibam lahzey_{:tag="dt"} _mushroom wizards (Telvanni ?)_{:tag="dd"}

{:tag="dl"}
