---
title: Ylgar, the Bear of Forelgrin (ME 99 - ME 81)
series: The Seventeen and One Monarchs of the Ysgramor Dynasty
part: 2
pseudonym: High Chronicler Valerius of Winterhold
reddit: 7p6k5h
author: Jimeee
date: 2018-01-09T11:39:21Z
---

![Ylgar, the Bear of Forelgrin][banner]

Ylgar was Ysgramor’s youngest child and a renown warrior in his own right. Born
in the village of Forelgrin, Ylgar spent much of his youth hunting with his
father and brother in the surrounding Atmoran Frostwood. At around twelve years
old he undertook his proving by climbing to the summit of Mount Hviturfjall and
slaying an ice wraith, as was the tradition among his clan. His unwavering
spirit and battle prowess drove him to serve alongside his father and brother in
the military for several years, both in Atmora and later in Skyrim.

Seeking revenge after the sacking of Sarthaal, Ylgar returned to Atmora and
recruited hundreds of formidable warriors from Jylkurfyk and Drekihrim and set
sail upon his ship, the Darumzu. He crossed the Sea of Ghosts alongside his
father and older brother Yngol, but in a tragic turn of events Yngol was killed
in the infamous Storm of Separation. As the last surviving offspring of the
Harbinger, the mantle of leadership was to now pass on to Ylgar after Ysgramor’s
death.

## War in the East

Conquest and expansion (later codified as Ysgramor’s Decree) was the Harbinger’s
final proclamation to his people. Ylgar excelled in this regard and continued to
stabilize the kingdom’s holdings while expanding deeper into Skyrim. Were it not
for his commanding presence and leadership, many scholars believe the Five
Hundred Companions would have fallen after Yasgramor’s death.

Ylgar launched campaigns into the east against what the Annals call the “golden
heathens”, more commonly known as the Chimer. Ancient texts uncovered in
Morrowind reveal that the Chimer initially extended the hand of diplomacy, but
were immediately rejected. The fact that these elves were unrelated to those who
sacked Sartaal made no difference to Ylgar. His army invaded their lands, sacked
numerous villages and temples, and annexed much of the eastern coast along the
Inner Sea, including the region known today as Stonefalls. As a last resort, the
Chimer performed a dark ritual by sacrificing the lives of two of their leaders
in order to [summon two colossal Daedra][0]. The demons succeeded in crushing
the entire Jylkurfyk torc-brigade, forcing Ylgar to withdraw from Morrowind,
vowing to return one day and put them all to the sword.

## Arrival of the Priesthood

Atmoran emissaries arrived in Windhelm around ME 95 with a decree from the
Dragon priesthood back in Atmora. They saw that a stable kingdom had been
established on the mainland, and they were coming. Ysgramor had warned Ylgar of
this day, but it had come much earlier than expected.

Ysgramor once served the priesthood on Atmora, and was a devout worshiper of
what we today call the Ancient Nordic Pantheon. Nevertheless, he was against
ceding his clan’s new found power, well aware that defying the priesthood would
be blasphemy. Before he died, Ysgramor set in motion a plan to ensure that his
clan alone would continue to rule Skyrim. However it was too early to enact and
Ylgar had no choice but to negotiate with the priesthood. A decision that
infuriated Ylgar.

When several priests of the ruling council arrived in Skyrim the following year,
tensions were eased by Ylgar’s royal sorcerer, Ahzidal. Ahzidal served as
Ysgramor’s personal “clever man”, and over the years had become one of Ylgar’s
closest advisers. Ahzidal negotiated with the ruling council to share power and
submit the authority of certain lands and people over to the council. With the
populace fully supporting High King Ylgar, and the priesthood’s overlords still
roosting in Atmora, the council had little choice but to accept these terms.

## The Old Holds

After Olaf Honnith’s army eradicated the numerous elven insurgents in the
[Battle of Autumn Field][1], Ylglar ordered the construction of Riften in ME 90
and divided his kingdom into four Holds. These holdings (now known as the Old
Holds) were named Eastmarch, Winterhold, the Pale and the Rift. The Pale was
granted to the priesthood, while the rest remained under High King Ylgar, but
governed by jarldoms. In the following years he oversaw the mass immigration
from Atmora and ordered the expansion of Dawnstar and Winterhold to accommodate.
In addition, numerous mountain villages and hamlets, such as Wittestadr and
Ivarstead, were founded across the north. The priesthood began to established
numerous temples across the Pale and for the next several years Ylgar and the
priesthood co-existed in relative peace.

Ylgar’s rule came to an end upon his death in ME 81. Despite his prowess as a
warrior, Ylgar died his twilight years. He was buried in the husk of the
_Darumzu_, the ship that brought him to Skyrim. Although Ylgar never married and
had no direct heirs, Ysgramor had already decreed that it would be Yngol’s only
son, Heimverlund, who would become High King after Ylgar.

[0]: https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Brothers_of_Strife
[1]: https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Dismay#Word_Wall_Translations
[banner]: ./7p6k5h/banner-ylgar.png
