---
title: Jafnhar the Young
series: The Seventeen and One Monarchs of the Ysgramor Dynasty
part: 4
reddit: 7pn9i5
author: Jimeee
date: 2018-01-11T10:38:28Z
---

> Jafnhar the Young (ME 61 - ME 61)
>
> _by High Chronicler Valerius of Winterhold_

---

Prince Jafnhar was the youngest son of the Totem-King Heimverlund and Finna
[Prince-Slayer][0]. Born in ME 70, he was never destined for the throne as
Heimverlund had named Jafnhar’s older brother as his successor many years
earlier. Skerd-Prince Grymvaar was serving as an oblate in the priesthood and
was to follow in the Totem-King’s footsteps by eventually becoming a high priest
and leading the ruling council. However after most of his clan was exterminated,
Jafnhar was left as the last surviving legitimate heir.

At only nine years old and with no strong allies or family remaining, Jafnhar
was in no position to take the throne and was forced into hiding for a period of
time. Some sources claim he only survived the purge of his bloodline by the
intervention of Ahzidal, King Ylgar’s old adviser. During this time all of
Skyrim mourned the death of the royal family, for they were much loved. Civil
unrest grew across the land and many sought vengeance. Rebellions erupted and
tributes from every Hold ceased flowing to the priesthood, while the ruling
council descended into bitter infighting.

## Whiterun’s Hope

Jafnhar was taken into the care of [Guri Nail-Face][1], one of the few surviving
Skerd, who arranged his safe passage to Whiterun after several weeks in hiding.
Jarl Haelga Raven-Hair was loyal to Ysgramor’s clan and hailed Jafnhar’s arrival
as a blessing. Whiterun was a prosperous Hold but the death of the royal family
had completely destabilized her region. Many of her subjects were still loyal to
the priesthood, while others were openly inciting rebellion against them.
Violence between these two parties was becoming commonplace and a ruler who
could unify both was desperately needed. Jarl Haelga believed the young prince
was destined to lead, just as his forefathers before him, and rejected the
lordship of the priesthood. The city-folk named Jafnhar as their new king and
his coronation took place shortly after in Whiterun.

Kingship was hollow without the blessing of the Dragons, and they were known to
only commune with the priesthood. Jafnhar the Young, brave but reckless, decided
to seek out the great dragon roosting at the summit of Snow-Throat and demand
his rule to be recognized. The climb to the summit supposedly took three days,
but young Jafnhar arrived to find the great Lodunost, Pale Drake of the East
slumbering. According to legend, Jafnhar approached the dragon and bellowed his
demands at the beast. Lodunost awoke, but no sooner had Jafnhar paused to take
breath did Lodunost engulf him in a storm of fire.

Jafnhar’s remains were supposedly buried on the mountain itself and in later
years [a monument was erected at the summit][2] honoring his sacrifice. With his
demise, the known bloodline of Ysgramor ceased to be. Skyrim was plunged into an
age of dark as the priesthood assumed full control. Leading them was a hitherto
unknown priest who emerged after the downfall of the Totem-King. His name was
Miraak, known also as the first Dragonborn.

[0]: https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Fall_of_the_Snow_Prince
[1]:
  https://www.imperial-library.info/sites/default/files/pge01_skyrim_pic_02.jpg
[2]: https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Fire_Breath
