---
title: Valdimar the Vanquisher
series: The Seventeen and One Monarchs of the Ysgramor Dynasty
part: 7
reddit: 7qs6vm
author: Jimeee
date: 2018-01-16T13:08:50Z
---

> Valdimar the Vanquisher (1E 03 — 1E 75)
>
> _by High Chronicler Valerius of Winterhold_

High King Valdimar, also known as the Vanquisher, the Deliverer and the Savior
of Skyrim, ushered the Atmoran people into the First Era after his triumph over
the dragon priesthood. Valdimar’s long rule is best remembered as the king who
rebuilt the nation after the destruction wrought upon it for the last 60 or so
years.

## Return of the King

His coronation in Windhelm was brief ceremony, attended by the city-folk almost
immediately after his victory. Before he disappeared, Valdimar’s wartime general
Hans the Fox forged for him an ebony and whalebone mace encrusted with gemstones
to mark his reign as the new king and to ward against dragonkind. According to
legend, every gemstone in the Vulpine Scepter was enchanted with numerous curses
against dragonkind, each more malevolent than the last.

One of his first decrees was the establishment of the Sisterhood of the Hawk: a
religious order that would serve as the official faith of his kingdom. Valdimar,
recognizing Kyne’s part in his victory, elevated the deity above the other
totems in the Ancient Nordic Pantheon. It was around this time that primitive
totem gods began to slowly fall out of favor and instead become characterized as
the deities we know today. Kyne (alongside Shor) were among the first, however
over the next several centuries veneration of the other animal gods followed
suit.

Teachings surrounding the Thu’um was codified under his rule. With the aid of
the greatest Tongues, he laid the groundwork for the Voice to be taught to every
child thereafter, with the most proficient students conscripted into his armies.
Grand mountain temples were re-purposed into schools that taught this new type
of warfare, and soon the Thu’um became ingrained into Nordic culture.

In honor of his fallen kinsmen and forefathers, he erected numerous cenotaphs
and monuments throughout the land. Most notable was the towering statue of his
great, great grandfather Yngol the Martyr, which was built overlooking Snowhawk.
In recognition of their aid against in felling numerous dragons during the war,
Valdimar offered the giantish clans of Eastmarch a truce and granted them to
right travel the lands in peace. In the years that followed, the citizenry began
a tradition of gifting them painted cows as way of thanks.

## Rebuilding a Nation

In an effort to bolster the drastically reduced population under Dragon rule,
Valdimar sent emissaries back to his clan’s ancient holdings on Atmora. His
envoys reported that ever since the priesthood had abandoned Atmora, the clans
who remained had devolved into a fractured and warring society. He offered each
and every clan gold and safe passage to Skyrim should they wish to join their
brethren on the mainland. Given than the situation on Atmora was worsening
dramatically as the "Freezing of Drekihrim" took hold, almost all remaining
clans gladly took up Valdimar’s offer. Their arrival was a boon to Skyrim, as
many of the old traditions and heritage of High Atmoran culture that had been
eradicated by the priesthood were revived.

## The Houses of Clan Skerd

Among the new arrivals was Grelka Cruel-Wind, chieftain of the largest clan,
whom Valdimar married shortly after. Her clan was absorbed into his, and she
took the title of Skerd-Queen before she bore him three children.

These children, Hjonrskar, Fjora and Asbjorn, would go on to birth three great
houses under the banner of Clan Skerd, from which all Nordic kings thereafter
would descend from. This tripartite division of the Ysgramor Dynasty was the
precursor to the Moot, and would last for almost 300 years, until the War of
Succession.

Hakon One-Eye remained as the general of Valdimar’s army, and was successful in
defending Skyrim for years to come. Feldir the Old retired to the Valley of the
Ancestors in the Jerall Mountains to study the mysteries behind his Elder Scroll
in complete seclusion, and was later credited with the founding of the Cult of
the Ancestor Moth.

Valdimar ruled as High King for forty seven prosperous years before abdicating
the throne to his son Hjornskar in 1E 50. He spent the rest of his days at his
family’s old farmstead near Riften and died many years later at the age of 105.
