---
title: Valdar the Far Sighted
series: The Seventeen and One Monarchs of the Ysgramor Dynasty
part: 13
reddit: 7ui737
author: Jimeee
date: 2018-02-01T11:45:55Z
---

> Valdar the Far Sighted (1E 110 — 1E 123)
>
> _by High Chronicler Valerius of Winterhold_

Valdar the Far Sighted, also known as the Scribe-King, was the younger brother
of High King Vundheim, and was known thought the kingdom as both a wise and
learned scholar. He commanded great respect within his clan and was named his
brother’s successor after his assassination.

The kingdom he inherited was plagued by infighting between [the tripartite
ruling class][0]. The reasons were numerous, but the largest division among them
was one side’s desire for further conquest versus the other’s appeal to
strengthen the kingdom from within. The legacy of every king, since the time of
Ysgramor, loosely fit into one of the two philosophies.

Conqueror-kings, such as Heimverlund, Einarth and Hjonskar, were lauded for
expanding Skyrim’s borders, bringing her much wealth and staying true to
Ysgramor’s Decree. Nation-builders, such as Ylgar, Valdimar, Vundheim became
much loved for building infrastructure and improving the lives of their
subjects.

As Ysgramor’s Dynasty grew in size, so it became increasingly difficult for the
royal family to agree of matters of ruling. Indeed, many speculated that his
brother’s assassination was ordered from within the royal family itself, due to
his strong views on suspending expansion.

There was hope that Valdar’s great wisdom and foresight would mend the rifts, as
he was neither conqueror or builder. He was a sage and a devotee of Jhunal. His
famed white robes were replete with the enchanted feathers of the snow owl (in
mimicry of the Jhunal’s totem animal) and were said to grant him prescient
powers. Several eddas make reference to his unnatural ability of scrying the
tides of fate and divining future events with great accuracy, including the
betrayal of [Magus Haldir], the [White Flood] of 1E 98 and even his own
brother’s assassination.

He was said to always carry with him a large black grimoire and a white stave
hewn from the branch of a great frost-oak. Ysgramor supposedly brought hundreds
of frost-oak cuttings with him from Atmora and planted these throughout his new
kingdom, however a scarce few survived the Dragon War. When the frost-oak
matured, it was said to swell with potent frost magic that Atmoran woodcrafters
could harness and create powerful staves, although none exist today.

## Forbidden Knowledge

Valdar’s early reign was incredibly successful and historians largely agree that
he saved the kingdom from civil war. His methods of mediating conflicts were
supposedly unconventional, but almost always resulted in success. Within the
first five years of his rule he had resolved almost all disputes between the
ruling family and established treaties between them and their Holds. In turn,
all three Houses of Skerd renewed their fealty to the crown.

As the years passed, Valdar became more and more reclusive as he spent months in
the Royal Archives pouring over tomes and annals from the era of the Dragon
Cult. So much so that his Housecarl, Mjoll Asbjornsen, was eventually forced to
assume the day-to-day running of his court.

Valdar was fascinated by his ancestor, Totem-King Heimverlund, and the powerful
masks he and the other High Priests of the cult wore. Although countless texts
from that era were burned when King Valdimar’s overthrew the priesthood,
numerous manuscripts were uncovered over the years. Even owning such texts were
completely prohibited under law, save for those in the Royal Archives. Valdar
was treading dangerous ground by seeking such forbidden knowledge. Had he been a
commoner, he would have accused of being a dragon cultist and immediately
executed. Nordic historians have traditionally hand-waved this blatant double
standard with assertions that Valdar’s intentions were "for the good of the
kingdom" and the like.

Perhaps most damning are his fragmented journals, regarded by many Nords as
treasonous fabrications, which possibly reveal a much darker purpose:

> _18th Frostfall 1E 121_
>
> _…the last text I translated chronicles the Totem-King’s anointment, but no
> mention of the mask… I feel I am close but this pitiful archive is missing
> what I need… O had my dim-witted predecessors preserved these valuable texts
> instead of destroying them I would have the answer by now._
>
> _12th Rain’s Hand 1E 122_
>
> _Progress is slow. For months I hath sent scavengers to every decrepit temple
> to find more texts, and they produce nothing of use! I must have unearthed
> every accursed ruin in this land searching for the mask’s whereabouts… I may
> have no choice but to accept Herma Mora’s bargain, but I am no fool. I know he
> will attempt to betray me, but I will be prepared when the time comes._
>
> _1st Rain’s Hand 1E 123_
>
> _…The Totem-King was indeed wise. I found the old shrine in the ruins of
> Bromjunaar, but nary magic nor might could break it open. I know it’s in
> there. I could not wait any longer. I gave the vile Daedra the [text missing]
> he sought, and in return he hath granted unto me the knowledge to unlock the
> shrine. A simple wooden mask, carved in mimicry of the legendary masks of old.
> He claims its imbued with the very essence of dragonkind, but to unlock its
> power I must don the mask within the ancient sanctuary itself… There shall be
> no more delays. Konahrik will be mine!_

Consorting with Daedra was a most grievous crime indeed, and had been enforced
since the rule of Ysgramor when he warned his people of his dealings with the
Woodland Man on Atmora. For a High King (of the Harbinger’s very bloodline no
less) to carry out such an act is unfathomable to Nords who unsurprisingly
reject the journal as an "Imperial forgery" created to sully the King’s good
name. I leave it to you, dear reader, to draw your own conclusions.

Regardless, in 1E 123 King Valdar was last seen leaving Windhelm in the dead of
night upon his steed and heading east. His royal guard was said to have pleaded
with him to take an armed escort, but Valdar forbid anyone to follow on penalty
of death. Before the royal family could be alerted of his departure it was too
late. He disappears completely from the historical records thereafter.

The royal court was left in disarray, but before the Skerd could descend back
into infighting Thane Haknir the Baleful - grandson of the great Hjonskar the
Wolf - assumed the throne.

[Magus Haldir]: https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Halldir’s_Cairn
[White Flood]: https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:White_River
[0]: https://en.uesp.net/wiki/User:Jimeee/Fiction/YsgramorDynasty#Family_Tree
