---
title: Cycles of the Spirit
reddit: 80pc1a
author: RetharSaryon
date: 2018-02-27T19:34:00Z
about: |
  This text explains my take on the cycle of life and death in the Elder Scrolls
  universe. It touches on the nature of souls, afterlife and why the Daedra are
  interested in Nirn. I hope it makes sense. Questions, critique and discussions
  are very welcome.
---

_by Master Rethar Saryon, Wizard-Lord of Thenim’s Tower, Head Librarian of the
Telvannic Athenaeum_

_“On the ritual of occasions, which comes to us from the days of the cave glow,
I can say nothing more than to loosen your equation of moods to lunar
currency.”_

This is the advice given to us by the Magic Hermaphrodite in the Scripture of
Love. But his words often fall on deaf ears among those who wish to reach
Heaven, which is to see the Aurbis sideways. For to escape it, one must watch
the Spokes and understand the forces that make the Wheel turn. These are the
lattices of the Lunar Economy which you must violate, and so to escape you must
first understand their nature.

Lunar Currency is unlinked to the sundered carcass of the Trickster. It was
nym’d so by the Warrior-Poet, for the lunar god paved the road to enlightenment,
which is to say the curse of mortal death, and rebirth of the AE happens
according to the blood-stained dance of the moons. Lunar Currency is the
transaction of spirit upon mortal death and the Economy is the realm in which it
is used.

## WHAT IS SPIRIT

Spirit dwells within us. It is the House of Will and within living beings it is
crystallized into the spirit-creatia complexes that animate the body. In this
constellation, the spirit mass becomes AE and molds creatia into an animus.
Whether we are walking by foot or levitating by spell, we are always moved by
our animus at the behest of our AE. The former is the arm, the latter the mind
that wills it to move. The distinction is nominal until the soul is cloven upon
death.

The AE is tied to the Dreamsleeve. Its nature is extraurbic, but Arkay took a
branch off of it and grafted it onto the Mundus along with his limbs. This was
his gift-curse to mortals, which supplied the spokes of the mundrial Spirit
Wheel. The Sleeves of Arkay store the memories of the AE. The strings that
connect the two are volatile, but those who can grasp them can travel to the
dreamsleeve and enter the memories of others.

The nature of the soul’s constituents is a matter of much debate among scholars.
The subject is saturated with influence from false dogma, leading to numerous
misconceptions. Some number the constituents as many as 7, but we see only the
treble image of an armed man lost in thought. Spirit is the Will and Mind, the
immortal water of the milling wheel. The animus is the star-shaped arm and its
fate is abandonment. Memory is external and dreams forever in Aetherius.

## WHAT IS DEATH

Death is the trisection of the soul. To the unaligned spirit, death is of little
consequence. The AE simply forms a new animus from available creatia. It does
not undergo dreamsleeve erasure and retains all its memories. But for many of
the lesser souls of Tamriel, it is the source of great fear and anxiety, for
their death is governed by the Gift-Limbs of the Aedra. Upon death, the
AE-Animus bond is interrupted and the AE will be carried on by the spirit-wheel,
which is to say the Earth-Bone of Arkay. It may be deterred from passing by way
of obscure psycho-entrapment, but this secret must be learned elsewhere. Without
a will to guide it, the animus disperses, except in extraordinarily dire
circumstances where the animus may turn into a ghost. A ghost retains part of
the bond between its psychic constituents and may remain on Nirn for centuries
before the connection finally breaks and the spirit can pass on.

## THE DREAMING SLEEVE OF REBIRTH

If the alignment of the deceased spirit is to the planet-gods, it will be
reappropriated and reborn by way of Dreaming Sleeve erasure. On the occasion of
death, or amnesia, the wheel turns and the ties between AE and Memory are cut.
The AE becomes pure spirit sans identity. This is the reason why non-sleevic
communing with the deceased is only viable for a time: The AE is soon recycled.
After a while, it will be reappropriated back towards the Mundus. That is the
blessing-curse of the mortal: To be born anew. However, Memory lingers
perpetually in the vast waters of the Dreaming Sleeve.

## THE SPIRIT WHEEL

Thus spins the Wheel of Spirits: From Mundus to Mortal Death to Rebirth
Unmantled. And yet it is believed by some that it is their fate to live forever
in the bright land of Aetherius. This is, for the most part, a Western lie, a
consolation for short-lived Men. Though some have reported experiencing
afterlife, this is but their memories mirroring themselves in the still waters
of the Dreaming Sleeve, much like an eternal sleep.

_But,_ the northern heretic rudely interrupts, _what of the manifold accounts of
Aetherial Sovngarde? This is proof that my soul will live forever!_ To this I
answer no, false believer, this is proof that only some souls live forever. The
spirits of certain Aedrically aligned mortals may be removed from the Spirit
Wheel by the Planet-Gods to be reappropriated onto the God-Planets. The
nocturnal firmament proves the existence of Aedric planes, and much like their
Daedric counterparts, the Aedra extract select spirits from the mundrial
psychocycle to grant them afterlife. However, afterlife for all is
counterproductive to the true purpose of Tamriel, and thus it is purely
exceptional: Only the greatest votaries enter the Hall of Valor.

The Spirit Wheel is substantiated by its explicatory force. It elucidates the
occurrence of reincarnation and explains the demeanor of Daedric Princes.
Through the meddling of powerful spirits, individual AE-complexes may repeatedly
pass through the dreamsleeve undivided and with (or without) their memory-links
intact. The recurring births of Shezarrines can hardly be explained by those who
dream of Paradise.

We must now stand back from the single wheel we have been studying until now. To
achieve full understanding of the Lunar Economy, one must study all the
cartwheels of the caravan.

## THE LUNAR ECONOMY

Before you now is an image of the perfect mill-wheel. No water is spilt by the
perfect spirit wheel; even the lost drops of haunting ghosts climb back unto it
eventually. The lunar deficit is null. The wheel spins forever.

However, the perfect image is but a didactic sketch. The wheel has cracks and
leaks through which spirits escape. One such crack is Aedric afterlife, though
it is likely small. Greater is the leakage of black psycholitic entrapment and
some forms of ancestor worship - as these practices bind souls to the mundrial
plane and prevent Dreamsleeve rebirth. Greatest of all the leakages, however, is
the crack that leads straight into Hell. On death, spirit is reappropriated
towards its aligned AE, and if this AE constitutes a Daedric planet, the spirit
drifts into Oblivion.

The Daedric Princes have wheel-prisons of their own, constructed in mimicry of
Arkay’s bones, and spirits enter these upon reappropriation into Oblivion. Keep
in mind that each plane of Oblivion is a carriage which may have many wheels.
This is supported by the experiences of Empress Annaïg during her imprisonment
in the rogue Daedric plane of Umbriel. She reported the existence of a Somniform
spiritual cycle for the Umbrielic paupers: Spirits were reborn unmantled by
Memory, though not via reproduction. The Umbrian lords were Daedric and retained
their memories post-reanimation. The carriage of Sheogorath is multirotate as
well: Aureals and Mazken reform according to an independent Daedric
pneumatocycle, which is to say rebirth unobliviated, and mortal Madmen live and
die according to Somniform spirit cycles, which is to say rebirth unmantled.
Whether the reappropriated spirit enters one wheel-prison or another is up to
the discretion of the Prince.

The secret about lunar agents is this: They are spirit gluttons. This demeanor
is clearest in the House of Troubles: The Oblivion Crisis and the Planemeld were
transliminal incursions unto Nirn in pursuit of lunar currency to bolster the
ranks of their hordes and fortify their own principal mytho-magical
capabilities. Dagon and Bal seek to do so through brute force, while other lunar
agents seek to lure mortal souls into their glamourous carriages with sweet
promises and auspicious deals. Be not fooled by this! They are all in truth
gilded cages from which there is no escape. Nirn is the hunting grounds of the
spirit hunters, for it is easier to lure the soul of a gullible mortal than that
of an ancient Daedroth.

The hazards of lunar leakage cannot be emphasized enough: It is the death of
Royalty. To be reborn unto a Daedric plane is eternal imprisonment for the
spirit. Even the most benign of Princes will not allow a true King to rise
within their realms. The virtue of the Eight-or-Nine is non-intervention in
mundane events; only in the Arena can ruling kings roam freely. An unspirited
Mundus would mean the end of the Psijic Endeavor, for it is impossible to
irritate the sun from within the maw of a Daedroth.

**Thus it has been shown: The eternal spirit moves in the manner of water in a
mill-wheel. Spiritual gluttony explains the demeanor of Princes. Even to
propitiate slightly towards the Daedra is to risk eternal damnation of the
spirit. There can be no ruling kings in Oblivion.**
