---
title:
  "PELINAL – Testing Journal and System Specs – Per Chief Councillor of
  Extra-liminal Manipulations and Interstitial interventions"
reddit: 82e9qz
author: TheWoodenplank
date: 2018-03-06T11:10:07Z
---

## Foreword

Herein are the research notes of Chief Councillor Lorani Hexatius, head of
Extra-liminal Manipulations and Interstitial Interventions. The notes are dated
7E 1037, and refer to testings of the Prototype Extra-Liminal Interstitial
Nirnian Assault Lattice between Morning Star and Evening Star of that year.

---

## Extra-Liminal Interstitial Nirnian Assault Lattice

(Prototype version 0.12.01b)

The engineers inform me that field tests of the Assault Lattice – _which they
have taken to calling Pelinal, for convenience and, I suspect, affection_ – have
begun.

I very much look forward to their reports – and I especially look forward to
conveying news of success to chancellor Arithmanio, after so many years of
failiure and wasted credits.

### System-specs and important information

(_I note these here for my own benefit, as the biofabricant architects beseeched
me to keep them in mind as test results start coming in… This honestly makes me
more than a little suspicious_)

| Unit                                | Specifications                                                                                                                  |
| :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Fuel Core                           | Three Grand Soulgems, placed stratetically within the head, chest, and right servo-arm respectively.^+                          |
| Skeletal Frame                      | The skeletal frame is constructed of Lorkimium#5.7, that is to say 83% ebony, 4% gold, 6% moonstone, 3% coal, and 4% orichalcum |
| Flesh Frame Substitute              | 27% netch blubber, 13% Hist marrow, 60% water ^£                                                                                |
| Outer Shell (skin) frame substitute | Bullnetch leather, boiled in nirnroot juice.^¤                                                                                  |

- \+ The architects inform me that each soul gem is enchanted to function freely
  of the others. If one unit, the head for instance, becomes separated from the
  entirety, it should remain functional for several hours after the
  dismemberment.
- £ This was all horrendously expensive, but the biofabricant architects assure
  me that it was all necessary to create an authentic look. I pray to The Heart
  that they’re right, else it’s coming out of their pay! Furthermore; I am also
  told that netch blubber has a tendency to build to an electric voltage which
  _could_ interfere with the enchantments of the prototype… And I was told this
  information would be reassuring…
- ¤ I am told it produces a skin similar to the lorkhani of the 2-3E time. Or at
  least close enough as to fool them.

### Prototype Testing Journal: Morning Star 5

It has been discovered that during times of stress – usually caused by having to
reroute soulfuel from non-essential system to self-mending functions – the
prototype AI has a tendency to deteriorate greatly, and enter RAMPANCY.

During these bouts, anthroponalysis systems reach critical deficiency ratings,
and the prototype was even observed to persue a Lorkhani engineer (_thankfully
these tests were conducted before weaponization, and I am informed that
architect Malkorian will have fully recovered by the end of First Seed_). The
recommended cause of action is to allow the Prototype to engage in continuous
combat simulations until the analysis systems fully recover on their own.

### Prototype Testing Journal: Sun’s Height 15

Testing of the anthroponalytic systems remains frustrating.

After the incident with Malkorian, it was deemed appropiate to have a cat
surgeon immediately ready on testing site. This, however, proved to be a fatal
miscalculation…

At the sight of the khajiit, the anthronalysis enchants failed as PELINAL, still
weaponless, proceeded to hammer its servo-arm into the poor cat’s face with a
screeching series of bleeps and beeps to accompany the bludgeoning. When the
engineers finally disabled the prototype, the cat surgeon was reduced to pulp,
and it took several hours for the sanitation factotums to clean up – and for the
engineers to recover their startled senses.

I’m sure chancellor Arithmanio will have choice words to say with the
Enchanter’s Guild after this incident!

P.S. _I was later informed that the binary screeching of the prototype roughly
translate as “All mer must die!” with a mixture of words like “exterminate”,
“obliterate”, and “un-make” mixed in for effect. Setting aside some of its
cognitive malfunctions, the Assault Lattice is certainly proving efficient._

### Prototype Testing Journal: Frostfall 27

SUCCESS! To some degree anyhow.

The anthronalysis enchanters inform me that the Assault Lattice can now
distinguish between merish and lorkhani with a success rate of 87.31%. Which,
they assure me, is as good as its going to get.

All that remains now is working with the Council of Extra-liminal Ethics and
Jill Conventions. A war fought with committees and bureaucracy.

On that account chancellor Arithmanio informs me that while the ethics council
seem ethusiastic to the PELINAL intervention, the laws set forth by the Jill
Convention of 873 are proving… difficult.

I solemnly hope that these narrow-minded rules won’t kill off our project. Curse
the fool that took jill manipulation lightly! I’d hate to see that ridiculous
mixup with the camoran family line be the end of the PELINAL project.
