---
title: Hjalmer the Unworthy
series: The Seventeen and One Monarchs of the Ysgramor Dynasty
part: 16
reddit: 82renh
author: Jimeee
date: 2018-03-07T20:16:29Z
---

> [Hjalmer the Unworthy] (1E 221 — 1E 222)
>
> _by High Chronicler Valerius of Winterhold_

Hjalmer was the eldest son of the King Harald Hand-Free and Skerd-Queen Fura
Jurgendottir. He ascended to the throne in 1E 221 after the death of his father
and was charged to continue Harald’s numerous campaigns to expand the kingdom
into Morrowind, Cyrodiil, and the Western Reach.

Despite his noble heritage, the young King Hjalmer has been widely accepted as
both an unpopular king and inept military leader, whose short reign was
characterized by conflict and poor decision-making.

Although he swore to uphold his father’s wishes on his deathbed, upon becoming
High King he completely reneged on his promise in favor of his own military
campaigns - much to his court’s surprise. Hjalmer was very careful to never
explicitly declare he had other plans (to do so would have given any of the
three Houses of Skerd the authority to depose him immediately for breaking a
royal death-oath). Instead, he would make various excuses (ranging from
reasonable to outright ridiculous) as to why he couldn’t commit troops and
resources to his father’s campaigns. Promising that Harald’s "Exalted Crusade"
was merely delayed - not rescinded - was enough to keep the Skerd appeased,
albeit begrudgingly.

## The Failed King

One of Hjalmer’s most infamous failures was losing the significant military
gains his predecessors had made in Morrowind. The defeat of his forces at the
hands of an Ashlander army at the Battle of Ash Mountain was a humiliation that
helped drive Nordic forces from eastern Stonefalls.

His attempts to quash opposition at home proved equally unsuccessful. Hjalmer
alienated many of Skyrim’s jarls by promoting unsuitable and unpopular personal
favorites, who were widely believed to hold a negative influence over him. He
made several unpopular changes to the laws of the kingdom, including increased
taxation on inherited property, gaining him the ire of the kingdom’s wealthy
landowners. Six months into his reign discontent within Skyrim had reached
breaking point and Hjalmer was on the verge of civil war with rebel Jarls.

Exactly how the Hjalmer was ever named as High King has baffled historians and
scholars for centuries. He was neither a noteworthy warrior or mastermind
tactician. He was completely illiterate in the Thu’um, and some accounts even
claim he didn’t undertake the Proving (an ancient rite-of-passage in honor of
Child-King Jafnhar) at the summit of Snow-Throat as all his predecessors did.
Many agree that its entirely possible that word of King Harald was so respected
among the royal family that no one dared openly question his choice of
successor, despite many among the court favoring his brother Vrage. This
inevitability leads to the question of why Harald chose Hjalmer? Such scholarly
conundrums will possibly never be answered and we can only speculate the motives
of the ancient kings.

## Baseborn

Although the royal court largely remained loyal to the new king, his younger
brother Prince Vrage was one of his most vocal critics and protested against
many of his decisions. Chroniclers speak of the brothers quarreling with each
other so fiercely that their mother, Skerd-Queen Laransdottir, was called to the
throne room on several occasions to bring order to the court.

Prior to Hjalmer’s rule, there had long been rumors among the royal family that
King Harald may not have the father of Hjalmer. Shortly after Harald’s
coronation, his wife was kidnapped and held for ransom by the notorious
Hatchet-Hand bandits. Harald arranged for her safe return before hunting down
and exterminating the entire group, but some weeks later she was reportedly with
child. No one in the royal family dared suggest the unborn child of the High
King was illegitimate (indeed such accusations were punishable by death), but
there was always an unspoken air of uncertainty surrounding the young prince.

The ancient journals of Prince Vrage reveal he was among those who believed
Hjalmer was indeed the misbegotten son of some long-dead bandit chieftain. Vrage
supposedly had obtained proof of this through some form of blood-ritual
performed by the witches of the Smokefrost Wyrd. While this alone would have
been enough to dethrone Hjalmer, his refusal to follow Harald’s campaign of
expansion since becoming ruler angered Vrage immensely and sealed his fate.

## A King Usurped

While Prince Vrage desperately sought to depose his brother, he vowed not say a
word as long as his mother (who he still loved dearly) lived. He didn’t have to
wait for very long as almost a year after Hjalmer’s coronation did Skerd-Queen
Laransdottir pass on to Sovngarde. Not three days had passed after her funeral
did Vrage march into the Palace of the Kings and deliver a lengthy admonishing
speech to his brother before challenging him for the crown.

Hjalmer was no match for his battle-hardened brother and was slain in the throne
room in front of his own court. Vrage immediately assumed the throne and ushered
in a new era for the Nordic people. His father’s long-planned "Exalted Crusade"
(more commonly known as the Skyrim Conquests) would forever change Tamriel and
transform the kingdom of Skyrim into a vast continent-spanning empire.

[Hjalmer the Unworthy]: https://images.uesp.net//8/83/User-Jimeee-Banner-Hjalmer.png
