---
title: Aufhel and Helbung
subtitle: An Altmer Children’s Tale
reddit: 83364e
author: Chlodovec
date: 2018-03-09T02:08:16Z
---

> Dear Marcienne,
>
> I send you transcribed the fragment you requested from “Accounts of the exiled
> Altmer”. Please do not ask me to consult that book ever again, there’s pretty
> harrowing stuff in there, and the “library” you told me that had it also had
> for sell, how shall I put it, less savoury things. Anyway here’s the excerpt
> you asked for, the interview to this Girgo Margil, although, I have to say it,
> he sound to me like a fool of the islands. Before the Thalmor, island people
> like him were the reason we were so disregarded and hated in the continent. I
> hope it serves you well in your research. If you ever drop by the Imperial
> City you know where to find me.
>
> Sincerely, Saudal Silino.
{:.foreword}

Many were still fooled after that atrocious event. A few finally started seeing
what the Thalmor really stand for. But me? I knew all along. That was just the
catalyst I needed to pack my things and leave. Thanks to mother I was able to
tell that all this Thalmor nonsense was not going to end well.

Why I knew through my mother? You see, when I was a small child I was kind of an
impertinent little brat. There was this kid in our city who was Cyrodilic,
probably the son of someone at the Imperial Delegation, and we teased him every
day and every night. We ran behind him, called him names, and stole his lunch;
whatever insolent kids do. But one day I took it too far. We were teasing him in
front of my house and I told him that I wished for his entire race to disappear,
just like the Dwemer. Mother heard that through the window, got down to the
street and pulled me home.

She gave me the scolding of a lifetime. How did I dare to say something like
that? Hadn’t she taught me properly? She even said to me that I wasn’t much
different to the Atmoran Butcher, which was a grave admonition. Once she was
more calmed, and saw I was beginning to understand the full weight of my words,
she told me this old story of my people as a cautionary tale.

Back in the Era of the Coiling, when we were no longer divine but not still
purely mortal, there were two Ancestors who hated each other. Their true names
are lost to time, but over generations they were given the pseudonyms of Aufhel
and Helbung, two beings locked in eternal opposition. When one said white the
other said black, when one said up the other said down, what one desired the
other hated. There was no meeting point between them, no aspect in which they
were not totally and absolutely irreconcilable. Aufhel was the favourite among
the Ancestors, he always made the right choices and held the right beliefs,
while Helbung always erred and was proven wrong all the time.

One fateful day something horrendous happened. In one of their heated
discussions Aufhel became so enraged and so disgusted at his peer’s ignorance
and wrongness that he wished aloud for his death. Back then, when mortality was
still a recent concept to have to grasp, to wish for the death of someone was
considered as the ultimate blasphemy, an unforgivable act. Aufhel was put
forward in front of all the other Ancestors to be judged by his tremendous
profanity. It was decided that he deserved the worst possible punishment that
could be inflicted on him. And so they immediately carried on with a most
terrible punishment.

They executed Helbung.

In the beginning Aufhel didn’t understand what had just transpired. It looked
more like a boon than a curse. Finally he could exist without nagging
opposition. But the effects of what just had occurred didn’t take long to make
themselves evident. Soon he found that while in the past he was always singing
convincing hymns and crafting frivolous speeches, he could not anymore. There
was nothing for him to express. No impulse to portray himself. He felt he was
getting bigger and wider but at the same time was becoming more and more
transparent. In a last effort to retain himself he went into the river, looked
upon his reflection and repeated to himself “I am Aufhel, I am not Helbung”. He
repeated it once and once again until he caught himself saying something
completely different: “I am Aufhel because I am not Helbung”. And in that moment
he became boundless and disappeared. The wrongness for which Helbung always
stood for was remembered, from Aufhel nothing remained.

And after telling me this tale, mother also told me that just as Aufhel couldn’t
exist without Helbung, we cannot exist without mankind. We are Old because we
are not Wanderers, you are Wanderers because you are not Old. Although in dire
need of our wisdom, you show us the way we should not traverse, so we may be
better by opposition. If the Thalmor succeed in “purifying” Nirn, how we may
know who we are?
