---
title: Gellir Brass-Bane (1E 252 — 1E 272)
series: The Seventeen and One Monarchs of the Ysgramor Dynasty
part: 18
pseudonym: High Chronicler Valerius of Winterhold
reddit: 8dnuin
author: Jimeee
date: 2018-04-20T14:08:46Z
---

![Gellir Brass-Bane][banner]

King Gellir was born into the Royal House of Asbjorn on the eve of the Skyrim
Conquests in 1E 217. He is best remembered as the monarch who defeated the
Dwarven city-states of Skyrim and for strengthening the kingdom’s alliance with
the newly established Alessian Empire.

## Early Life

Gellir came from well-respected military family. His great-grandfather was the
much-loved [King Vundheim of Whiterun][0], his father served as a captain in
King Harald’s navy and his aunt was a powerful Tongue who commanded her own
brigade of Voice masters. Gellir’s father died at sea before he was born,
leaving him to be raised by his mother and the matriarch of his house, Alva
Jurgensdottir.

Gellir grew up during the Skyrim Conquests and was enthralled by tales of High
King Vrage’s campaigns against the Direnni elves of High Rock and “ash-heathens”
of Morrowind. Shortly after he undertook his Proving atop the Throat of the
World, Gellir joined Vrage’s army in 1E 233. Around this time, Vrage’s forces
had taken much of High Rock and recently defeated the last remaining Ashlander
army in Morrowind, but numerous insurgencies remained.

Despite his noble birth and influential family, Gellir was not given any special
treatment or his own command as would have been the custom of ages past. King
Vrage had decreed that such traditions were archaic, and under his rule, only
those who could prove themselves worthy would be elevated.

## Rise to Power

Gellir fought for many years on the front lines of the empire and proved himself
a notable warrior and tactician, eventually earning him the position as one of
Vrage’s “dogs of war”. When the Alessian Slave Rebellion broke out in 1E 243,
his brigade was sent to Cyrodiil (or Cyrod as it was known then) to aid the
Nedic rebels of the Heartlands while King Vrage went to war with the northern
Ayleid city-states. According to legend, Gellir fought alongside the winged
man-bull Morihaus himself when he led the charge to take the White-Gold Tower,
and the two became staunch allies and friends thereafter. Such was Gelllir’s
respect for the “Breath of Kyne” that named the Nordic town of Morthal after him
many years later. Following the establishment of Frostcrag Hold in northern
Cyrodiil, Gellir remained in region for the next several years to serve as the
first Jarl of Bruma.

Jarl Gellir became more familiar with his Nedic neighbors as time passed and
grew fond of his southern cousins. Shortly after Gellir’s appointment as Jarl he
became acquainted with a famed Nedic general named Val-Yenna (said to be equally
unmatched in both beauty and combat prowess). According to numerous eddic poems
of the time, the pair fell in love and were married — but their union caused
quite a controversy with the nobles back in Winterhold due to Val-Yenna’s
“mongrel blood”. Regardless, the marriage was a great boon to the southern
empire and strengthened the alliance between Empress Alessia and King Vrage.

## The First Moot

In 1E 252, Gellir was summoned to Winterhold where the deathly ill King Vrage
had gathered his Jarls and generals. Aware that his time on Nirn was coming to
an end, the High King announced that he would not choose his successor. Instead,
he decreed that the Jarls of the empire choose a worthy king from among the
Skerd themselves.

This was a radical change in the traditional order of Nordic succession.
Although Vrage sought to uphold the Blood Oath of the Skerd (a sacred law that
dictated only Ysgramor’s descendants were eligible to rule), he saw first-hand
how the actions of a single unworthy king could devastate the empire. Vrage
hoped that by granting the empire’s Jarls the right to choose his successor from
among the Skerd, it would ensure that an honorable and just ruler would be
selected.

The First Moot unanimously chose Jarl Gellir to succeed King Vrage. Shortly
after, Vrage passed and Gellir’s coronation took place in Winterhold where he
donned the Jagged Crown. As the new bearer of the Cartulary of Birthright, he
vowed to continue King Harald and Vrage’s campaigns for as long as he ruled.

## The Eight Divines

During the settlement of the newly established Frostcrag Hold in Cyrodiil,
Nordic settlers (fiercely opposed to the worship of elven gods) began openly
destroying Aldmeri shrines and temples across the hinterlands. Despite being
free of Ayleid lordship, many Nedes at this time were unwilling to renounce
their worship of the Aldmeri pantheon and were angered by the destruction of
these temples. So much so that they were willing to go to war with Skyrim for
such transgressions.

High King Gellir (who himself venerated the Nordic Pantheon) was unwilling to
stop his countrymen from committing such acts, much to the Skerd-Queen’s
disdain. Although he considered the Alessian Empire as allies, their continual
adoration of Elven deities brought that alliance into question.

Alessia found herself in a very sensitive political situation. She needed to
keep King Gellir as her ally but she could not force her subjects to convert to
the Nordic pantheon. Therefore, concessions were made and Empress Alessia
instituted a new religion: the Eight Divines, a synthesis of both Nordic and
Aldmeri pantheons.

Alessia’s subjects accepted the Eight Divines, but the Nords rejected this new
faith entirely and stayed true to their gods. The High Priestess of the
Sisterhood of the Hawk condemned the Eight as a blasphemous watering-down of
their revered gods — particularly Shor, who the Nedes now called Shezarr.
Despite their differences, it was enough to appease King Gellir and he continued
his support of Alessia. The two rulers remained on good terms until Alessia’s
death in 1E 266. King Gellir traveled to the Cyrodiil to pay his respects at her
funeral and attend the coronation of her successor, Belharza the Man-Bull.

## Second Sunken Crusade

By 1E 267, the Nordic Empire had grown vast, spanning from Daggerfall in the
west to Necrom in the east. Despite their success, Gellir was troubled by the
fact that for centuries only one foe had successfully resisted all forms of
Nordic expansion. The subterranean “deep folk”, more commonly known as the
Dwemer.

Skyrim’s sole attempt to conquer the Dwarves was almost 200 years ago by
Gellir’s ancestor, [King Hrogar Brass-Bane][1], whose failed crusade against
them ended in a stalemate. King Gellir claimed that the conquest of the Dwarven
cities beneath Skyrim was paramount to the empire’s stability and safety.
Conversely, other accounts claim he yearned for a great victory to cement his
legacy, or simply sought revenge for the bloody nose his clan had received at
their hands.

Unbeknownst to Gellir and the Nords, the Dwarven city-states of Skyrim were
locked in a grueling civil war for the last century, drastically weakening them
all. [According to some scholars][2], the Dwarves uncovered a rare and powerful
crystal in their deepest delvings. Although an alliance was initially formed
between four powerful cities to mine the crystal, it quickly deteriorated into
conflict and dragged the remaining city-states into the war.

When King Gellir announced his war against the Dwarves, he first marched upon
the city of Nchuand-Zel with a vast army, expecting heavy resistance. Instead,
he was met with a surprisingly meager first line of defense on the surface that
was quickly eliminated. The subterranean parts of the city fared no better, as
battle-chroniclers recount Gellir’s troops sweeping through the city at great
speed, crushing the Dwarves and their beastly slaves in every battle.

The vast city, which once withstood the full onslaught of the Nordic horde for
an entire decade, fell within the span of a month. King Gellir collapsed the
entrance to the deepest chambers and claimed the remaining city for the empire.
The city was re-named Markarth (meaning “City of Stone” in the old tongue) and
it prospered greatly in the years that followed.

In the span of three short years, almost all remaining Dwarven cities in Skyrim
fell before Gellir’s armies. As a symbol of his victories, he wore an enchanted
Dwarven breastplate thereafter — crafted from supposedly the very material the
Dwarves went to war over. Gellir took the name “Brass-Bane”, possibly in honor
of old King Hrogar (or an insulting display of one-upmanship depending on who
you ask).

While Nordic chroniclers have historically ascribed King Gellir’s impressive
victory to his inspired tactics or the blessings of Shor, its important to
remember that (much like Nchuand-Zel) the remaining Dwarven cities had been
decimated by decades of infighting and were ripe for the taking. Regardless,
Gellir’s “conquest” of the Dwarves solidified his legacy as one of the greatest
kings in the Ysgramor Dynasty.

## Death

In 1E 272 High King Gellir died, and with him the Skyrim Conquests ended. He was
buried in the royal crypts beneath Winterhold and the Moot was called
immediately after in the grand halls of Vrage’s Keep. After much deliberation,
the Jarls named Princess Yrsa Snowblade of House Asbjorn as High Queen.

[0]: ./7ttg7c
[1]: ./7ri9vn
[2]: http://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Aetherium_Wars
[banner]: ./8dnuin/banner-gellir.png
