---
title: The Altmer
subtitle: A Cultural Perspective
reddit: pvwe2
author: nerdlights
date: 2012-02-19T01:14:37Z
---

I decided I’d take a crack at submitting something useful, and answering some
questions you guys may have about certain things in TES. Specifically culture,
race, and history.

So to begin this, I’ll start with a race that has become prominent in the 4th
Era, the Altmer of Summerset Isles.

The Altmeri come from a group of Aldmer which stayed on the Summerset Isles
while others traveled to Valenwood and the rest of mainland Tamriel. They are
the closest relation to the Altmer, and in fact would be practically
indistinguishable from ancient Aldmer.

The Altmer, or High Elves, are native to the beautiful nation of the Summerset
Isles. It is presumed that they live on average anywhere from centuries to
thousands of years. (One has been documented as living for 3000 years) They call
themselves the “Cultured people”. Culturally, they place heavy emphasis on the
more artistic pursuits. Art, Writing, Law etc. The common tongue of Tamriel is
actually based off of Altmeri language. In fact, many cultural advances in
Tamriel have been a result of their ideas. To put it simply, what the Dwemer
were to technology, they are to artistic culture. Because of this, the Altmer have
developed a snobbish view towards other races of Tamriel. This doesn’t mean they
don’t respect them, but they believe they’re not as cultured as they are. Which
isn’t false in this case. So Art is pretty much their defining cultural aspect.

NOTE: I think it’s important to clarify that while the Altmer can be snobbish,
this isn’t a huge part of what contributes to the Thalmor goals in the 4th Era.
While the Altmer can be insufferable snobs, most of them aren’t flat out evil.
But more on that later.

The Altmer are naturally gifted at Magic, and are arguably the most innately
talented at the art of all the races in Tamriel. All mer (save Orsimer) tend to
have inclinations towards Magic, but it’s especially pronounced in the Altmer.

During the 1st and 2nd Era the Altmer were absent from most events that occurred
on the mainland. The sea that surrounds Summerset both saved the Altmer from and
introduced them to problems. Like most other nations in the 1st and 2nd Era,
Summerset suffered from internal conflict. The 3rd Edition Pocket Guide to The
Empire states that

> Internal conflicts between Skywatch and Firsthold, and between Alinor and
> Lillandril, often sparked into full war…

But much more pressing, was constant invasion from their neighboring
island-farers, the Sload and the Maormer. In the second Era, the Altmer teamed
up with the Bosmer of Valenwood, and the Aldmeri Dominion was formed. I think
it’s interesting to note that the original Dominion was one of necessity for the
Altmer. This formation was short-lived, however, as Tiber Septim with the
Numidium wiped the Dominion out in c.2E 896. The end of the Oblivion Crisis saw
the reformation of a much more powerful Aldmeri Dominion in 4E 29, and after the
Void Nights of 4E 98-100, the Aldmeri Dominion control Summerset, Valenwood and
Elsweyr.

Now what is not known to some is that the Thalmor, the rulers of the Dominion,
want to eliminate all men. This dates back to their creation myths. The Altmer
believe that they were divine beings before Lorkhan created Nirn. Lorkhan
removed them from this divinity to create the Ehlnofey (I’m paraphrasing real
hard). The Altmer, and more specifically the Thalmor view Lorkhan as bad, he
made them mortal. They resent man for their belief that Lorkhan gave man the
gift of life from nothing. Some wounds never heal, as they say, and the Thalmor
seem to have some belief that by eliminating man, they can some how return to
this divinity. You’ll notice that while they’re racial snobs, they don’t hold
issue with the beast races. In short, they’re insane.

The Altmer, historically and culturally tend to be very interesting. Especially
since their ruling body is nuts, but many Altmer are generally good people, and
contribute much to Tamriellic tradition. If you have any questions are feel I
skimmed anything let me know, I’m really trying to tie all this info to any
questions anyone may have. Check this out for more: [On the Thalmor and the
Aldmeri Dominon][0] and thanks for reading!

[0]: https://elderlore.wordpress.com/episodes/02-on-the-thalmor-and-the-aldmeri-dominion/
