---
title: State Gradient Echo of Mundus Centerex
reddit: u4gzg
author: RottenDeadite
date: 2012-05-25T14:07:01Z
---

The Loveletter talks about a state beyond Mortal Death, “Z”, the “State Gradient
Echo of Mundus Centerex”. That term has always confused me. It sounded so
familiar, like I should know it, and it itched like a splinter in my brain.

It’s important because it describes the last state of existence, the ultimate
point that every Elder Scrolls mortal should want to reach. It’s the point
beyond CHIM, which makes it pretty damn interesting. It’s already been defined
as the Amaranth, which is most likely a point where you become a Godhead
yourself, and start dreaming your own dream. But the nature of that final
dimension are ill-defined, and I thought perhaps the State Gradient Echo of
Mundus Centerex might hold some clues.

Then I started researching MRI technologies to answer a few questions for my
wife, who’s had more than a few MRIs recently. And now I *think* I might know
what a State Gradient Echo of Mundus Centerex is.

## What’s a State Gradient Echo?

Either by coincidence or design, these three terms show up in the same order
when a student is learning to operate MRI machines. Understanding MRI imaging is
a little like learning how to play an instrument; an MRI machine is incredibly
intricate and flexible and pulling an informative image from a subject is a
little like tuning a guitar to make one incredibly specific note when you thump
it with a hammer.

A State Gradient Echo is hard to explain, but basically it’s one technique MRI
operators can use to create a clear image of specific tissues in a human body
that might otherwise show up as indistinct, out of focus, or not at all.

In terms of the Elder Scrolls, the "Gradient" term *appears* to be
interchangeable with the word “creation”, so I think Kirkbride is using the
concept of MRI photography as the creation of reality. In a way, he’s saying
that a photograph of an object (say, a flower) is like creating another physical
thing, another flower.

If we sprinkle this with a bit of Metaphysics, we could think of the whole
reality of the Elder Scrolls as a two-dimensional image: an image projected onto
a monitor. The Elder Scrolls universe is actually just a series of flat slides,
each slide representing a “state” of the Elder Scrolls universe at that point in
time.

This would make more sense if I started talking about quantum mechanics and the
concept of experiencing time as a series of slides in a roll of film but
wouldn’t it be more fun if you figured that out for yourself?

## What’s a Mundus?

That’s an easy one. The Mundus is the physical realm that floats around in
Oblivion. The Aedric planets, Nirn, and its Moons are all part of Mundus.

## What’s a Mundus Centerex?

Tricky part. A Centerex is, by the strictest definition, the central office
through which all mail is routed.  But if you cross your eyes a little you can
see how a Centerex can also mean the center through which all communication, or
commands, are sent.

So the Mundus Centerex is the Brain of the World, the “soul” or the “center” of
the Mortal realm. It’s interesting that Kirkbride refers to it with the letter
“Z”, because can you guess what a Z-axis State Gradient Echo of a human body
looks like?

![Sagittal section of a human body][0]{:.light-only}

Therefore it’s probable that a State Gradient Echo of Mundus Centerex is an
image of the fundamental mind behind the Mundus, the nervous system of the
entire span of physical reality, which the Loveletter names as the “Last
Existence, The Eternal I”, or the Godhead.

**What’s a Nubian?**

Shut up, Banky.

[0]: https://i.imgur.com/hkMQf.gif "Sagittal section of a human body"
