---
title: Bloody Blackreach
subtitle: The Truth Behind The Fall of the Falmer
reddit: yl1dz
author: Vaelkyri
date: 2012-08-21T15:35:58Z
---

## Of Ancient Magicks, Power Immeasurable and Deeds most Foul

– A consolidated theory on the fall of the Falmer race using recently surfaced
information, notably the research of Prof Katria (posthumously awarded) and her
cohort, information that has surfaced during the recent Vampire Crisis, The
Aetherium Wars by Taron Dreth and the always invaluable The Falmer: A study by
Ursa Uthrax.

Complied by scholars of the Imperial University, led by Vaelkyr Vicir - 4E 201.

Long have the enigmatic races of Dwemer and Falmer both fascinated and confused
Imperial Historians. The total and sudden disappearance of the Dwemer, leaving
nothing behind but their strange (and often deadly) machines has made research
difficult. Coupled with the fact that almost no written records have survived,
and those that have are an extensive challenge to decipher and translate has
left us very much in the dark about these strange “deep elves”.

Ironically, it has been revelations about an even less understood race, thought
pure fantasy until recent times, - the Falmer or “snow elves” that has shone a
light on the Dwemer and exposed some very dark and very ugly truths about this
advanced and powerful race.

Firstly some background, whilst we will not address the bloody massacre at
Sarthaal during the “Night of Tears”, nor the reasoning’s behind that- we will
let our esteemed colleagues deal with that little mystery- It is important to
note it as the beginning of the end for the Falmer Civilisation. Ysgramor
survived Sarthaal and returned with his 500 Companions to drive the elves from
Skyrim. As told in Lokheim’s “Fall of the Snow Prince” they succeeded,
shattering the Falmer and driving the few that remained by that time into
hiding.

The Falmer were thought lost to time, either exterminated in the war or simply
faded away for countless centuries, until the esteemed Ursa Uthrax uncovered a
much darker fate which he published in The Falmer: A Study, currently the most
extensive work of knowledge on the Falmer race.

They did not die, though I’m sure many wished they had. Ursa discovered that the
remaining Falmer had fled into the great underground caverns of Blackreach,
seeking shelter with their cousins the Dwemer or ‘deep elves’. The Dwemer did
grant that protection, but at a horrible cost- the Falmer were fed poisoned
mushrooms that grow in Blackreach which eventually drove them blind, not just
the first generation, but every generation after that, until the Falmer lost
all sight to the darkness. The Dwemer were cruel taskmasters, using the crippled
Falmer as slaves until the eventual rebellion known as the “War of the Crag”.

There is no doubt in this scholars mind that during this time Blackreach served
as a prison, laboratory, and work camp all rolled into one. The convenience it
offered the Dwemer with a slave workforce accessible at any part of the empire,
its secure location, easy availability of the poisoned mushrooms that enforced
their hold on the Falmer , and its close proximity to the mines (which will be
addressed in a later section) would have turned the dark beauty of Blackreach
into a den of pain and horror for the survivors of the Falmer race.

But there is another side to this story, the Dwemer.

Recent discoveries by the late Prof Katria (posthumously decorated) and the
scholar Taron Dreth, have uncovered a great deal of information about the Dwemer
Empire in Skyrim at this point in history. Katria’s research points to a loose
confederation of Dwemer states, Arkngthamz, Bthar-zel (though this may be an
outpost of the larger nearby Bthardamz), Raldbthar and Mzulft, working on a
joint project at Bthalft. It appears that such alliances to work towards large
technological advances were not uncommon, however it also appears that this
alliance did not last. What the Dwemer discovered was so powerful they went to
war with each other all seeking to wrest the ultimate power for themselves.

What as this power? Aetherium, a rare and power substance that could be used to
created immensely powerful magical artifacts. This scholar has personally laid
eyes upon one such artifact, forged with the last remaining Aetherium by a
cohort of the late Prof Katria, a gleaming crown inset with Glowing milky blue
orbs that shine from some vast internal power.

By now I’m sure you as the reader are wondering, what does all this talk of
Falmer, Dwemer and Aetherium have to do with each other?

Everything.

The Aetherium was mined deep within the Blackreach, at the same time as it was
being used as a slave camp for Falmer. It is only logical to conclude that
Falmer slaves would have been used to mine what was reportedly a “harmonically
volatile substance”. Dwemer technology, whislt impressive, would have been
little surprise to the magically powerful Falmer, hardly a prize worth going to
extreme measures to protect. But Aetherium? A substance so precious and powerful
the Dwemer would wage war upon themselves for its control? Now that is something
to murder for.

It is this scholar’s assertion that the Falmer were blinded to protect not
secrets of Dwemer technology as is commonly believed, *but that they were*
*blinded for the sole purpose of concealing the secret of Aetherium!* That the
Falmer, kept penned as slaves within the Blackreach were used to mine the
potentially dangerous material from the deep caves and that the Dwemer
systematically poisoned the entire Falmer race, perhaps even with the intent of
total genocide, to protect their powerful discovery. Some of my associates have
even speculated the rather morbid possibility that, with Blackreach being rich
in raw soul gems, and Dwemer animunculi requiring charged soul gems to operate,
the Falmer could have served as… dare I say it a sacrificial power source.

The sad remnants of the Falmer were only saved by civil war within the Dwemer
alliance, granting them the chance to break free and stage a rebellion, the “War
of the Crag”. A war which raged through the dark underneath until the day the
Dwemer simply vanished.

A grim tale indeed, but there is one more thing that must be considered, the
Falmer were used as slaves within the deep mines to gather raw Aetherium, -
during the Dwemer civil war, and subsequent Falmer rebellion they fled “into the
deeper caves”, denying Dwemer entry. *It is possible that deep within the*
*Blackreach raw untouched Aetherium may still be found!*

A stretch to be sure, but this scholar feels an expedition to search for any
possible remaining Aetherium deposits is worth the not insubstantial risks and
should be conducted with utmost haste.

– Prof Vaelkyr Vicir and associated scholars of the Imperial University
– 4E 201

----

Addendum: Discussions with the honoured Quintus Umbranox, Researcher at the
Synod reguarding timelines seem to reinforce this theory. With the Aetherium
Wars beginning circa 1e 222-225 (around the death of High King Harald) with the
creation of the Aetherium Forge, and the sudden collapse of the Dwemer Empire in
Skyrim before High King Gellir's forces several decades later it is likely that
the extended Civil war coupled with the Falmer 'breakout' contributed heavily to
the unexpected Nord Victory. This would place the beggining in of the War of the
Crag circa 1e 250- 260.

That the Dwemer never experimented with Aetherium again in the ~450years till
their disappearance and the chances of Dwemer walking away from a power source
willingly are zero to none indicates that there was likely an external force
preventing them form accessing the raw Aetherium. In this case the Falmer
“rebels”. As Quintus Umbranox also pointed out, a 450 year underground war would
also explain the Falmers change form relative peace to insane savagery, and the
reason the Dwemer in Skyrim were significantly behind technologicaly speaking
compared to thier Vvardenfell compatriots.
